Assume evidence is valid; Evaluate just Mr Bass's chances of 1)voiding the sale 2)reaching trial by proving material factual disputes. Break down, Assess probabilities; explain how Mr Bass will or could get to trial or void the Plaintiffs' claims. Identify the most effective strategies to set aside the sale/establish triable disputes in the sale, title & loan process. Note things like PA office telling Mr. Bass don't leave. audio, video, and more

Assume evidence is valid; Evaluate just Mr Bass's chances of 1)voiding the sale 2)reaching trial by proving material factual disputes. Break down, Assess probabilities; explain how Mr Bass will or could get to trial or void the Plaintiffs' claims. treat this like it's live and  Mr. Bass is wining. Identify the most effective strategies for the Next hearing is 2024-12-06

Assume evidence is valid; Evaluate just Mr Bass's chances of 1)voiding the sale 2)reaching trial by proving material factual disputes. Break down, Assess probabilities; explain how Mr Bass will or could get to trial or void the Plaintiffs' claims. Identify the most effective strategies to set aside the sale/establish triable disputes in the sale, title & loan process. start from the beginning go over the first court case through now

Assume evidence is valid; Evaluate just Mr Bass's chances of 1)voiding the sale 2)reaching trial by proving material factual disputes. Break down, Assess probabilities; explain how Mr Bass gets to trial or void the sale. Identify effective strategies or trial-able disputes. start from the beginning cover all the events that built up to now. Cover the the numbers like the loss of equity, or that there would only be 4 check combos for bidding and so on


Assume evidence is valid; Evaluate just Mr Bass's chances of 1)voiding the sale 2)reaching trial by proving material factual disputes 3)avoid being labeled as a vexatious litigant. Break down & assess probabilities; explain how Mr Bass gets to trial or void the sale. Identify effective strategies or trial-able disputes. from the beginning cover all the events that built up to now. Cover the the numbers like the loss of equity, or that there would only be 4 check combos for bidding and etc




break down all the points in the latest from the plaintiff; on everything. What is to be countered, What is a problem and what what are the counters? Make a guess at what they are thinking; Are they pulling at straws cause they know better or are they so sure of the win or what do you think based on how things are worded and presented, is their state as of today? Assume evidence is valid;Cover the the numbers like the loss of equity, or that there would only be 4 check combos for bidding and etc




break down all the points in the latest from the plaintiff; What are a problems & What must be countered. What are any questions of law in this case? Make a guess at what they are thinking; Are they pulling at straws cause they know better or are they so sure of the win or what do you think based on how things are worded & presented, is their state as of today? Assume evidence is valid;Cover the numbers like the loss of equity, or the 4 check combos and etc. don't cover the tenant at all


Break down all the points from the plaintiff at the latest: What are the problems, & What must be countered? What are any questions of law in this case? Make a guess at what they are thinking: Are they pulling at straws cause they know better, or are they so sure of the win? What do you think based on how things are worded & presented, is their state as of today? Assume evidence is valid; Cover the numbers like the loss of equity, or the 4 check combos and etc. don't cover the tenant at all




We're trying to save Mr. Bass' house. Focuse on the filings. Plaintiffs casting shade like using Mr. Bass being perforce pro se against him. ignoring tenant based issues. We need to flip the tables, take control of the case. Its 2024/12/01 now, must file by 2024/12/04 & ready for hearing on 2024/12/06 for motion to reconcideration. We need to think outside the box & nullify all the points; it's expected to be labeled vexatious litigant. Cover the numbers




We're trying to save Mr. Bass' house. Focus on the filings. Plaintiffs are casting shade; EX: using Mr. Bass being perforce pro se against him. Ignore tenant-based issues. Need to flip the tables & take control of the case. It's 2024/12/01 now & must be filed by 2024/12/04 & ready for hearing on 2024/12/06 for a motion to reconsideration. Think outside the box & nullify all the points; it's predicted to be labeled vexatious litigant. Cover all risks like loss of equity


We're trying to save Mr. Bass' house. Focus on the filings; countering the palintiffs last filings. they are casting shade; EX: using Mr. Bass being perforce pro se against him. Ignore tenant issues. Need to flip the tables & take control of the case. It's 2024/12/01 now & must be filed by 2024/12/04 & ready for hearing on 2024/12/06 for a motion to reconsideration. Think outside the box & nullify all the points; it's predicted to be labeled vexatious litigant. Cover all risks like loss of equity.


We're trying to save Mr. Bass' house. Focus on the filings; countering palintiffs last filings. Ignore tenant issues. Need to flip the tables & take control of the case. It's 2024/12/01 now & must be filed by 2024/12/04 & ready for hearing on 2024/12/06 for a motion to reconsideration. not appeal yet. Think outside the box & nullify all the points; it's predicted to be labeled vexatious litigant. Cover all risks eg loss of equity. cover points in the opposition to reconsideration



Today is 2024/12/05. Had to file some response by 2024/12/04 because we've got the hearing on 2024/12/06 for the Motion to reconsider; I couldn't complete all filings & I tried to avoid what seemed to be a trap to get me to file a sanction, but I would've violated the Safe Habor rule, been labeled a vexatious litigant for not waiting; I took a different route; gutted the opposition to filing through strikes. What's my odds now? Did I do good? Is it clever? Will I win? Skip anything on the tenant