Hello,
Thank you for getting back to me; I appreciate it.  I didn't see that the full letter was opened up on Dropbox, but that may have been a mistake with Dropbox. I wanted to make sure it was sent.  If you read in the, there are 28 criminal statute violations, and "they" are using the system to get away with things by making it so that every firm I call for help has basically told me that they have a conflict of interest with me without even hearing any of the details.  Even Idaho State Legal Aid told me that.  It's of great concern as it seems the whole banking sector is in a precarious spot.

I understand that there is a lot here, and everyone I seek help from keeps taking this stance of "Sorry, it's legal/civil, I can't help you," but it's not.  Yes, there are civil parts, and that is why I have had to go Pro Se, but this is the level of what is going on. I had a sheriff at the courthouse while the fake auction took place, with the very lady who told me she and other local developers were working with the bank to fix the auction no less, but the sheriff told me that it seemed civil and he agreed it looked like a farse given they sold it for exactly what the bank falsely claimed I owed them and the woman had the checks in hand.  Mind you, I have everything I just told you on record, too, so it's a fact that I am telling you.  What is scary is that even though it was witnessed, a felony in progress, no one did anything. I keep having any law enforcement I seek help from telling me that they "think it sounds civil" and then declining to do anything.

It's just unnerving that I can watch so many people commit criminal acts, but I know if I don't comply with leaving my house, citing that it's "a civil matter," they will not care and try to remove me by force. Why can't I get that same cover? Why is it criminal for me to be here yet civil for them to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars through multiple frauds?  

If the full PDF was not read, I beg you to please take the time to read it.  It has much more than just the auction.  There is an extortion ring of doctors uncovered, a child that was molested that needs justice; there was a murder attempt on my life, and for whatever reason, we can't get authorities to redress anything at all.  