https://www.gao.gov/assets/590/587721.txt
This is the accessible text file for GAO report number GAO-12-235 
entitled 'Bank Capital Requirements: Potential Effects of New Changes 
on Foreign Holding Companies and U.S. Banks Abroad' which was released 
on January 17, 2012. 

This text file was formatted by the U.S. Government Accountability 
Office (GAO) to be accessible to users with visual impairments, as 
part of a longer term project to improve GAO products' accessibility. 
Every attempt has been made to maintain the structural and data 
integrity of the original printed product. Accessibility features, 
such as text descriptions of tables, consecutively numbered footnotes 
placed at the end of the file, and the text of agency comment letters, 
are provided but may not exactly duplicate the presentation or format 
of the printed version. The portable document format (PDF) file is an 
exact electronic replica of the printed version. We welcome your 
feedback. Please E-mail your comments regarding the contents or 
accessibility features of this document to Webmaster@gao.gov. 

This is a work of the U.S. government and is not subject to copyright 
protection in the United States. It may be reproduced and distributed 
in its entirety without further permission from GAO. Because this work 
may contain copyrighted images or other material, permission from the 
copyright holder may be necessary if you wish to reproduce this 
material separately. 

United States Government Accountability Office: 
GAO: 

Report to Congressional Committees: 

January 2012: 

Bank Capital Requirements: 

Potential Effects of New Changes on Foreign Holding Companies and U.S. 
Banks Abroad: 

GAO-12-235: 

GAO Highlights: 

Highlights of GAO-12-235, a report to congressional committees. 

Why GAO Did This Study: 

During the 2007-2009 financial crisis, many U.S. and international 
financial institutions lacked capital of sufficient quality and 
quantity to absorb substantial losses. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) 
introduced new minimum capital requirements for bank and savings and 
loan (thrift) holding companies—-including intermediate holding 
companies of foreign banks. Intermediate holding companies are the 
entities located between foreign parent banks and their U.S. 
subsidiary banks. These companies held about 9 percent of total U.S. 
bank holding companies’ assets as of September 2011. The Dodd-Frank 
Act also required GAO to examine (1) regulation of foreign-owned 
intermediate holding companies in the United States, (2) potential 
effects of changes in U.S. capital requirements on foreign-owned 
intermediate holding companies, and (3) banks’ views on the potential 
effects of changes in U.S. capital requirements on U.S. banks 
operating abroad. To conduct this work, GAO reviewed legal, 
regulatory, and academic documents; analyzed bank financial data; and 
interviewed regulatory and banking officials and market participants. 

GAO makes no recommendations in this report. GAO provided a draft to 
the federal banking regulators (Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency) 
for their review and comment. They provided technical comments that 
were incorporated, as appropriate. 

What GAO Found: 

Foreign-owned intermediate holding companies can engage in the same 
activities as and generally are regulated similarly to their U.S. 
counterparts. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(Federal Reserve) oversees the regulation, supervision, and 
examination of foreign and U.S. bank and thrift holding companies. As 
of the end of 2010, four qualifying foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies (exempt holding companies) were relying on a capital 
exemption, which allowed them to operate with significantly lower 
capital than U.S. peers. Federal Reserve officials noted that allowing 
capital to be held at the foreign parent bank (consolidated) level was 
consistent with its supervision for U.S. bank holding companies and 
met international standards for home-host supervision. The Dodd-Frank 
Act eliminated the capital exemption in order to enhance equal 
treatment of U.S.- and foreign-owned holding companies by requiring 
both types of companies to hold similar capital levels in the United 
States. As a result, these exempt holding companies must meet minimum 
capital standards that are not less than those applicable to Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured depository institutions by July 
2015. 

The four exempt holding companies have been considering various 
actions to comply with new capital requirements, and the effects of 
eliminating the capital exemption on competition and credit cost and 
availability likely would be small. Specifically, these companies are 
considering raising capital, decreasing their holdings of risky 
assets, restructuring, or adopting a combination of these actions. GAO’
s analysis of loan markets suggests that the elimination of the 
capital exemption likely would have a limited effect on the price and 
quantity of credit available because the affected banks have 
relatively small shares of U.S. loan markets, which are competitive. 
These four companies accounted for about 3.1 percent of the loans on 
the balance sheets of all bank holding companies in the United States 
as of year end 2010. In addition, GAO’s review of the academic 
literature and econometric analysis both suggest that changes in 
capital rules that affect the exempt companies would have a limited 
effect on loan volumes and the cost of credit and add minimally to the 
cumulative cost of new financial regulations. Although the impact on 
the price and quantity of credit available may vary across regions, 
modeling limitations restricted GAO’s ability to identify regional 
differences. 

Market participants expressed uncertainty about how changes in capital 
requirements might affect the competitiveness of U.S. banks operating 
abroad, partly because international regulatory capital requirements 
have yet to be implemented. The largest internationally active U.S. 
banks derived about one-third of their 2010 revenues from operations 
abroad. They face a variety of domestic and foreign competitors and 
are subject to multiple regulatory regimes. Bank officials expressed 
uncertainty about how changes in capital requirements will affect 
their cost of capital, lending ability, and competitiveness. 
Furthermore, they were concerned that fragmented or conflicting 
regulations across national jurisdictions might restrict banks’ 
ability to use capital efficiently. Many U.S. banks GAO interviewed 
expressed concerns about the added costs of compliance with multiple 
regulatory regimes and the impact of the Act on the global 
competitiveness of U.S. banks, but these concerns would need to be 
considered against the potential benefits of a safer and sounder 
financial system. 

View [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-235]. For more 
information, contact Thomas J. McCool at (202) 512-2642 or 
mccoolt@gao.gov. 
[End of section] 

Contents: 

Letter: 

Background: 

Organization of Foreign Banks in the United States: 

U.S. Regulation of Foreign-owned Holding Companies Intended to Achieve 
Equivalency with Domestic Counterparts: 

Overall Effects of Capital Changes for Exempt Foreign-owned 
Intermediate Holding Companies Likely to Be Limited: 

Market Participants Concerned about Differing Capital Regimes and 
Competitive Effects Abroad: 

Agency Comments: 

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and Methodology: 

Appendix II: Impact of Reducing the Risk-Weighted Assets of Exempt 
Holding Companies to Comply with New Requirements: 

Appendix III: GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments: 

Tables: 

Table 1: U.S. Operations of Foreign Banks, as of September 30, 2011: 

Table 2: Basel Capital Accord Framework, from 1988 through 2010: 

Table 3: Bank Holding Company Loan Market Shares, as of December 31, 
2010: 

Table 4: Capital Ratios and Capital Deficits for the Four Exempt 
Holding Companies Relative to Certain Capital Levels, as of December 
31, 2010: 

Table 5: Aggregate Impacts of Eliminating the Capital Exemption: 

Table 6: Decrease in Risk-Weighted Assets Necessary to Meet Certain 
Capital Levels: 

Figures: 

Figure 1: Capital Relationships in Foreign and Domestic Intermediate 
Holding Companies, after the Dodd-Frank Act: 

Figure 2: Herfindahl-Hirschman Index of Concentration in Loan Markets, 
as of December 31, 2010: 

Figure 3: Percentage and Dollars of Domestic versus Foreign Revenues 
of the Six Largest Internationally Active U.S. Banks, from 2005 to 
2010 (dollars in billions): 

Figure 4: Foreign Revenues of Six Largest Internationally Active U.S. 
Banks in 2010, by Region: 

Abbreviations: 

CCS: comprehensive consolidated supervision: 

CRD3: Capital Requirement Directive 3: 

CRD4: Capital Requirement Directive 4: 

DOJ: Department of Justice: 

DSGE: dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model: 

FBSEA: Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991: 

FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation: 

FTC: Federal Trade Commission: 

G-20: The Group of Twenty: 

GDP: gross domestic product: 

HHI: Herfindahl-Hirschman Index: 

IBA: International Banking Act of 1978: 

OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency: 

OTS: Office of Thrift Supervision: 

SEC: Securities and Exchange Commission: 

SIFI: systemically important financial institution: 

UK: United Kingdom: 

VAR: vector autoregression model: 

[End of section] 

United States Government Accountability Office: 
Washington, DC 20548: 

January 17, 2012: 

The Honorable Tim Johnson: 
Chairman: 
The Honorable Richard C. Shelby: 
Ranking Member: 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: 
United States Senate: 

The Honorable Spencer Bachus: 
Chairman: 
The Honorable Barney Frank: 
Ranking Member: 
Committee on Financial Services: 
House of Representatives: 

The 2007-2009 financial crisis revealed that many U.S. and 
international financial institutions lacked capital of sufficient 
quality and quantity to absorb substantial losses.[Footnote 1] In 
response, banking regulators around the world moved to strengthen 
requirements for capital adequacy. In the United States, the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) 
introduced new capital requirements for bank and savings and loan 
(thrift) holding companies.[Footnote 2] These requirements also apply 
to intermediate holding companies of foreign banking organizations 
(hereafter, such foreign banking organizations will be referred to as 
foreign parent banks or foreign banks).[Footnote 3] These intermediate 
holding companies held approximately $1.6 trillion in U.S. assets in 
2011, representing about 9 percent of total U.S. bank holding 
companies' assets.[Footnote 4] The Dodd-Frank Act requires these 
holding companies to meet minimum risk-based capital and leverage 
requirements that are not less than those applicable to depository 
institutions that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) 
insures. These requirements are intended to improve the capital and 
liquidity positions of such holding companies so that they may survive 
periods of financial and economic stress--thereby making the financial 
system more stable and reducing the likelihood or severity of future 
financial crises. 

Section 174(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act requires us to study the effects 
of the new U.S. capital requirements on foreign-owned intermediate 
holding companies, taking into account the principles of national 
treatment and equality of competitive opportunity, which accord 
foreign banks the opportunity to compete in the United States on the 
same basis as domestic banks. This report examines (1) the regulation 
of foreign-owned intermediate holding companies in the United States, 
(2) the potential effects of changes in U.S. capital requirements on 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies, and (3) banks' views on 
the potential effects of changes in U.S. capital requirements on U.S.-
owned banks operating abroad. 

To describe how foreign bank and thrift holding companies are 
regulated in the United States, we reviewed laws and regulations 
relevant to federal and state bank and thrift holding companies, 
regulatory documentation, and published reports, testimonies, speeches 
and articles; interviewed a state bank regulator, the European 
Commission (a European Union entity that, among other things, sets out 
general capital rules that each of the 27 European Union member 
countries can adopt at their discretion), bank holding companies, and 
industry experts; and reviewed prior GAO reports. In addition, we 
received written responses to questions from the European Banking 
Authority (European banking regulator) and attended a foreign bank 
conference on the implications of new capital rules. To assess the 
potential effects of changes in capital requirements for foreign-owned 
intermediate holding companies, we reviewed section 171 of the Dodd-
Frank Act and proposed and final capital rules for foreign-owned 
intermediate holding companies and related comment letters. We also 
reviewed various proposed and final international capital rules. In 
addition, we reviewed Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
regulatory filings of foreign bank holding companies. Moreover, we 
interviewed officials from the European Commission, foreign and U.S. 
bank holding companies, credit rating agencies and industry experts on 
the effects of the new capital requirements on foreign banks operating 
in the United States. We used the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)--a 
measure of industry concentration that reflects both the number of 
firms in the industry and each firm's market share--to track loan 
market concentration.[Footnote 5] We compared market shares for 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies (that were and were not 
subject to U.S. capital requirements) and U.S. bank holding companies. 
We obtained data on assets of foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies and U.S. bank holding companies from SNL Financial--a 
private financial database. We obtained a list of foreign-owned 
intermediate holding companies and information on whether they were 
subject to U.S. capital requirements from the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve), which is the 
consolidated regulator for all bank and thrift holding companies in 
the United States.[Footnote 6] We also obtained the views of foreign 
and domestic banks, credit rating agencies, and industry experts on 
the cost of capital and lending. 

To estimate the effect of capital requirements on the cost and 
availability of credit, we developed a modified version of a model 
commonly used in the macroeconomics and monetary literature. The data 
for the model were obtained from Thomson-Reuters Datastream, the 
Federal Reserve, and the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Because of 
the limitations associated with the modeling technique and uncertainty 
in the parameter estimates, we compared our results with those of a 
wider body of research on the effects of bank capital on lending 
activity. We obtained and analyzed relevant empirical studies and 
applied the estimates from these studies to the expected changes in 
capital stemming from the elimination of the Federal Reserve's capital 
exemption for certain institutions. 

To identify banks' views on the potential risks from changes in 
capital requirements on U.S. banks operating abroad, we interviewed 
officials from three U.S. bank holding companies that engaged in 
significant international operations and officials from the European 
Commission. We summarized studies and congressional testimonies of the 
potential effects on U.S. banks' funding costs, product pricing, and 
lending activity abroad. 

For all of our research objectives, we obtained the views of officials 
from the Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC), Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), FDIC, and the U.S. 
Department of the Treasury. We also conducted assessments of the 
reliability of data obtained from SNL Financial and other sources and 
determined that they were reliable for our purposes. For additional 
information on the scope and methodology for this engagement, see 
appendix I. 

We conducted this performance audit from December 2010 to January 2012 
in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe 
that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 

Background: 

Foreign banks have been cited as important providers of capital to the 
U.S. economy. According to Federal Reserve data, as of September 30, 
2011, 216 foreign banks from 58 countries had banking operations in 
the United States. They held about $3.4 trillion, or about 22 percent 
of total U.S. banking assets; about 25.7 percent of total U.S. 
commercial and industrial loans; about 17.5 percent of total U.S. 
deposits; and about 14.9 percent of total U.S. loans. 

Organization of Foreign Banks in the United States: 

Foreign banks may operate in the United States under several different 
structures, which include branches, agencies, subsidiary banks, 
representative offices, Edge Act corporations, Agreement corporations, 
and commercial lending companies (see table 1). Most operate through 
branches and agencies because as extensions of the foreign parent 
bank, they do not have to be separately capitalized and can conduct a 
wide range of banking operations. 

Table 1: U.S. Operations of Foreign Banks, as of September 30, 2011: 

Organizational structure: Branches and agencies; 
Number of entities: 246; 
Total assets: $2.207 trillion; 
Description: Branches and agencies may be licensed under federal or 
state law. They are not separate legal entities from their foreign 
parents. Federal branches have limited authority to take deposits, but 
may generally conduct the activities that a national bank can conduct. 
Agencies have more restricted deposit-taking authority but may 
undertake a broad range of banking activities. They generally are not 
FDIC-insured, and are not subject to U.S. capital requirements[A]. 

Organizational structure: Subsidiary banks; 
Number of entities: 50; 
Total assets: $1.031 trillion; 
Description: Subsidiary banks are chartered in the United States with 
shares owned or controlled by a parent foreign bank. They are separate 
legal entities from their foreign parents. They have the same banking 
powers and legal or regulatory restrictions as those of any other 
domestic bank. As such, they are subject to U.S. capital requirements. 

Organizational structure: Representative offices; 
Number of entities: 138; 
Total assets: Not applicable; 
Description: Representative offices allow foreign banks to attract 
business for the parent bank and to develop correspondent 
relationships with local U.S. banks. However, they cannot engage in 
banking activities, although they may conduct administrative functions 
such as receiving checks to forward to their home offices and handling 
the signing of loan papers. 

Organizational structure: Edge Act/Agreement corporations; 
Number of entities: 9; 
Total assets: $7.5 billion; 
Description: Edge Act corporations are established as separate legal 
entities and may conduct a range of international banking and other 
financial activities in the United States. By agreement with the 
Federal Reserve, state-chartered Agreement corporations essentially 
have the same powers as Edge Act corporations. 

Organizational structure: Other entities; 
Number of entities: 18; 
Total assets: $109.7 billion; 
Description: Other entities include commercial lending 
companies/investment companies and savings associations. For example, 
commercial lending companies are specialized nondepository 
institutions authorized under state law. They may engage in borrowing 
and lending activities and have numerous other powers. They may 
maintain credit balances but may not accept deposits. 

Organizational structure: Total; 
Number of entities: 461; 
Total assets: $3.355 trillion. 

Sources: GAO and Federal Reserve data. 

[A] Before December 1991, a limited number of foreign branches had 
obtained FDIC deposit insurance under provisions of the International 
Banking Act of 1978 and thus were allowed to accept retail deposits 
(currently up to $250,000 per depositor). But passage of the Foreign 
Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991 prohibits any foreign branch 
from applying for federal deposit insurance. Foreign branches that had 
received insured deposits were grandfathered (allowed to continue to 
receive insured retail deposits). As of June 30, 2011, 10 such foreign 
branches operate. A foreign bank that wishes to accept insured 
deposits may do so through a de novo subsidiary or acquiring a 
separately chartered U.S. bank or thrift subsidiary. 

[End of table] 

Both domestic banks and U.S. subsidiary banks of foreign banks may be 
owned or controlled by a bank holding company. Holding companies are 
legally separate entities from their subsidiary banks, are subject to 
separate capital requirements, and are supervised and regulated by the 
Federal Reserve. In the United States, bank holding companies are 
common and function as the top-tier entity in the corporate structure. 
In many foreign countries, notably in Europe, the deposit-taking bank 
is the top-tier entity in the corporate structure and bank holding 
companies are less common. According to the Federal Reserve, as of 
September 30, 2011, there were 29 foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies in the United States. This report focuses on changes to the 
capital requirements for these entities under the Dodd-Frank Act. 

Bank and thrift organizations are required to hold capital so that 
certain parties, such as depositors and taxpayers, would not be harmed 
if the bank or thrift faced unexpected substantial losses. There are 
many forms of capital, the strongest of which do not have to be repaid 
to investors, do not require periodic dividend payments, and are among 
the last claims to be paid in the event of bankruptcy. Common equity, 
which meets all of these qualifications, is considered the strongest 
form of capital. Weaker forms of capital have some but not all of the 
features of common equity. National banking regulators classify 
capital as either tier 1--currently the highest-quality form of 
capital and includes common equity--or tier 2, which is weaker in 
absorbing losses.[Footnote 7] Different entities within a banking 
organization may have different capital requirements. For example, a 
subsidiary bank and a broker-dealer in the same corporate structure 
may be required to hold different levels of capital, and those capital 
requirements are established and supervised by different regulators. 

International Efforts to Enhance Bank Supervision and Stability of the 
Financial System: 

In the 1980s, U.S. and international regulators recognized that common 
borrowers and complex products and funding sources had made the 
world's financial markets increasingly interconnected. Regulators also 
acknowledged that bank regulatory capital standards generally were not 
sensitive to the risks inherent in a bank's activities and that 
distressed or failing large, internationally active banks posed a 
significant global risk to the financial system. These concerns 
underscored the need for international regulatory coordination and 
harmonization of capital standards. As a result, in 1988 the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) adopted a risk-
based capital framework known as the Basel Capital Accord (Basel I). 
[Footnote 8] Basel I aimed to measure capital adequacy (that is, 
whether a bank's capital is sufficient to support its activities) and 
establish minimum capital standards for internationally active banks. 
It consisted of three basic elements: (1) a target minimum total risk-
based capital ratio of 8 percent and tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
of 4 percent, (2) a definition of capital instruments to constitute 
the numerator of the capital-to-risk weighted assets ratio, and (3) a 
system of risk weights for calculating the denominator of the ratio. 
While the framework was designed to help improve the soundness and 
stability of the international banking system, reduce some competitive 
inequalities among countries, and allow national discretion in 
implementing the standards, it did not explicitly address all types of 
risks that banks faced. Rather, it addressed credit risk, which the 
Basel Committee viewed as the major risk banks faced at the time. 
[Footnote 9] Over time it became apparent to bank regulators that 
Basel I was not providing a sufficiently accurate measure of capital 
adequacy because of the lack of risk sensitivity in its credit risk 
weightings, financial market innovations such as securitization and 
credit derivatives, and advancements in banks' risk measurement and 
risk management techniques. The accord was revised and enhanced 
multiple times after 1988 because of its shortcomings. For example, in 
1996, Basel I was amended to take explicit account of market risk in 
trading accounts.[Footnote 10] The market risk amendment allowed banks 
to use internal models of risks to determine regulatory capital 
levels. Table 2 identifies some key features of capital regime 
enhancements to the Basel accords. 

Table 2: Basel Capital Accord Framework, from 1988 through 2010: 

Capital regime: Basel I; 
Year adopted by Basel Committee: 1988; 
Year(s) to be implemented: 1992; 
Risk enhancements: 
* Credit risk; 
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets: 
Tier 1[A]: 4%: 
Total[B]: 8%. 

Capital regime: Basel I market risk amendment; 
Year adopted by Basel Committee: 1996; 
Year(s) to be implemented: 1996; 
Risk enhancements: 
* Market risk; 
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets: [Empty]. 

Capital regime: Basel II; 
Year adopted by Basel Committee: 2004; 
Year(s) to be implemented: 2011; 
Risk enhancements: 
* Credit risk; 
* Operational risk[C]; 
* Market risk; 
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets: 
Tier 1: 4%; 
Total: 8%. 

Capital regime: Basel II.5 market risk amendment; 
Year adopted by Basel Committee: 2009; 
Year(s) to be implemented: 2011; 
Risk enhancements: * Market risk (updates 1996 market risk amendment); 
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets: [Empty]; 
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets: [Empty]. 

Capital regime: Basel III; 
Year adopted by Basel Committee: 2010; 
Year(s) to be implemented: 2013-2019; 
Risk enhancements: 
* Higher counterparty credit risk charges; 
* New leverage ratio (on-and off-balance-sheet assets); 
* Improved quality and increase of capital; 
* New liquidity ratios; 
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets: 
Tier 1: 6%; 
Common equity tier 1[D]: 4.5%; 
Total: 8%.
Additional capital requirements: 
Capital conservation buffer[E]: 2.5%; 
Countercyclical buffer[F]: 0-2.5%; 
Leverage ratio (a non-risk-based ratio)[G]: Currently set at 3%, with 
final percent to be determined. 

Sources: GAO analysis of Basel accords capital requirements and 
Barclays Capital. 

[A] Tier 1 ratio is tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. 

[B] The total risk-based capital ratio consists of the sum of tier 1 
and tier 2 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital 
consists primarily of common equity. Tier 2 capital includes limited 
amounts of subordinated debt, loan loss reserves, and certain other 
instruments. 

[C] Operational risk is the potential for unexpected financial losses 
due to a wide variety of institutional factors including inadequate 
information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal 
controls, and fraud. 

[D] Common equity tier 1 ratio is common equity to risk-weighted 
assets. 

[E] The capital conservation buffer, composed of common equity tier 1, 
is to be used by financial institutions to absorb losses during 
periods of financial and economic stress. The ratio is calculated as 
tier 1 capital minus regulatory deductions divided by total risk-
weighted assets. 

[F] The countercyclical buffer would be in effect during periods of 
excessive credit growth. The buffer would be set by each national 
authority with respect to the loan book and other credit exposures in 
its jurisdiction, and would be applied on a consolidated level on a 
weighted-average basis. 

[G] The leverage ratio is tier 1 capital divided by average total 
assets (not adjusted for risk) plus certain off-balance-sheet 
exposures. 

[End of table] 

Basel II, adopted in June 2004, aims to better align minimum capital 
requirements with enhanced risk measurement techniques and encourage 
banks to develop a more disciplined approach to risk management. 
[Footnote 11] It consists of three "pillars:" (1) minimum capital 
requirements, (2) a supervisory review of an institution's internal 
assessment process and capital adequacy, and (3) effective use of 
disclosure to strengthen market discipline as a complement to 
supervisory efforts. Basel II established several approaches (of 
increasing complexity) to measuring credit and operational risks. The 
"advanced approaches" for credit risk and operational risk use 
parameters determined by a bank's internal systems as inputs into a 
formula supervisors developed for calculating minimum regulatory 
capital. In addition, banks with significant trading assets, which 
banks use to hedge risks or speculate on price changes in markets for 
themselves or their customers, must calculate capital for market risk 
using internal models.[Footnote 12] The advanced approaches allow some 
bank holding companies to reduce capital from the levels required 
under Basel I. Large internationally active U.S. holding companies are 
implementing the first qualification phase--known as the parallel run--
of the Basel II advanced approaches.[Footnote 13] Although some of 
these large companies have begun to report Basel II capital ratios to 
their bank regulators, they still are subject to Basel I capital 
requirements, as are other U.S. banks. Financial institutions in most 
other industrialized countries are subject to the Basel II capital 
standards. In response to the 2007-2009 financial crisis, Basel II was 
amended in 2009 by Basel II.5 to enhance the measurements of risks 
related to securitization and trading book exposures.[Footnote 14] 

Also in response to the 2007-2009 financial crisis, in 2010, the Basel 
Committee developed reforms, known as Basel III, which aim to improve 
the banking sector's ability to absorb shocks arising from financial 
and economic stress, whatever the source; improve risk management and 
governance; and strengthen banks' transparency and disclosures. The 
reforms target (1) bank-level, or microprudential, regulation to 
enhance the resilience of individual banking institutions to periods 
of stress and (2) systemwide risks that can build up across the 
banking sector as well as the amplification of these risks over time. 
These two approaches to supervision are complementary, as greater 
resilience at the individual bank level reduces the risk of systemwide 
shocks. Specifically, Basel III significantly changes the risk-based 
capital standards for banks and bank holding companies and introduces 
new leverage and liquidity requirements.[Footnote 15] The new 
standards include a higher minimum common equity capital requirement 
of 4.5 percent of risk-weighted assets (the capital needed to be 
regarded as a viable concern); a new capital conservation buffer of 
2.5 percent to provide a cushion during financial shocks to help 
companies remain above the 4.5 percent minimum; and more stringent 
risk-weights on certain types of risky assets, particularly securities 
and derivatives. Basel III also defines capital more narrowly than the 
previous accords. The new common equity tier 1 capital measure is 
limited mainly to common equity because common equity is generally the 
most loss-absorbing instrument during a crisis. 

U.S. Regulation of Foreign-Owned Holding Companies Intended to Achieve 
Equivalency with Domestic Counterparts: 

U.S regulation of foreign-owned intermediate holding companies is 
intended to be equivalent to regulation of domestic counterparts to 
help ensure that foreign bank operations have the opportunity to 
compete on a level playing field in the U.S. market. Several laws 
enacted since 1978 have shaped the regulation of foreign-owned 
intermediate holding companies and other foreign-owned banking 
operations. The International Banking Act of 1978 (IBA) is the primary 
federal statute regulating foreign bank operations in the United 
States.[Footnote 16] In passing IBA, Congress adopted a policy of 
"national treatment," the goal of which is to allow foreign banks to 
operate in the United States without incurring either significant 
advantage or disadvantage compared with U.S. banks. To implement this 
policy, IBA brings branches and agencies of foreign banks located in 
the United States under federal banking laws and regulations. IBA and 
subsequent laws and regulations give foreign banks operating in the 
United States the same powers and subject them to the same 
restrictions and obligations as those governing U.S. banks, with some 
adaptations for structural and organizational differences.[Footnote 
17] For example, most foreign banks' operations are conducted through 
branches, and they generally can engage in the same activities as 
branches of U.S. banks. However, the U.S. branches of foreign banks 
are prohibited by law from acquiring deposit insurance from FDIC, and 
therefore may not accept retail deposits, whereas branches of U.S. 
banks can.[Footnote 18] 

In 1991, Congress passed the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act 
(FBSEA).[Footnote 19] This Act, which amended IBA, authorizes the 
Federal Reserve to oversee all foreign bank operations in the United 
States.[Footnote 20] Foreign banking organizations seeking to 
establish subsidiaries, branches, or agencies in the United States 
must apply for an operating charter from either OCC (national charter 
or federal license) or state banking agency (state license). The 
Federal Reserve must also approve these applications. The Federal 
Reserve's approval process involves determining the soundness of the 
foreign parent bank's activities. Specifically, the Federal Reserve 
assesses, among other factors, the extent to which the home country 
supervisor (1) ensures that the foreign parent bank has adequate 
procedures for monitoring and controlling its activities globally, (2) 
obtains information on the condition of the foreign bank and its 
subsidiaries and offices outside the home country through regular 
reports of examination and audits, (3) obtains information on the 
dealings and relationships between the foreign bank and its affiliate 
companies, and (4) receives from the bank consolidated financial 
reports for analyzing the bank's global financial condition. 

Another important requirement in the Federal Reserve's approval 
process includes assessing the quality of supervision provided by the 
applicant's home country supervisor. Specifically, the Federal Reserve 
determines the extent to which (1) the home country supervisor 
evaluates prudential standards, such as capital adequacy and risk 
asset exposure, on a global basis, and (2) the foreign parent bank is 
subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision--that is, the home 
country supervisor monitors the organization's overall operations 
across all legal subsidiaries and national jurisdictions. If the 
Federal Reserve is satisfied with the bank applicant's safety and 
soundness and the quality of the home country supervision, it can 
approve the foreign bank applicant (including its bank and nonbank 
affiliates) to do business in the United States. As the host country 
consolidated supervisor, the Federal Reserve retains full oversight 
authority over the foreign bank's U.S. operations.[Footnote 21] 

The Federal Reserve's determination that an institution is subject to 
comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated supervision 
(CCS) basis by the appropriate authorities in its home country is an 
institution-specific finding.[Footnote 22] If the Federal Reserve 
determined that a foreign bank was not subject to CCS, it still could 
approve the bank's application if it found that the home country 
supervisor actively was working to establish arrangements for such 
supervision and all other factors were consistent with approval. 
[Footnote 23] 

FBSEA also established uniform standards for all U.S. operations of 
foreign banks, generally requiring them to meet financial, management, 
and operational standards equivalent to those required of U.S. banking 
organizations. For example, FBSEA required the Federal Reserve to 
establish guidelines for converting data on the capital of foreign 
banks to the equivalent risk-based capital measures for U.S. banks to 
help determine whether they meet the U.S. standards. Additionally, 
foreign banks' U.S. operations must be examined regularly for unsafe 
or unsound banking practices and are subject to regulatory financial 
reporting requirements similar to those for their U.S. counterparts. 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act permitted foreign and U.S. bank holding 
companies to become financial holding companies, which are authorized 
to engage in a wider range of financial activities (such as insurance 
underwriting and merchant banking) compared with bank holding 
companies.[Footnote 24] In response to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the 
Federal Reserve modified its long-standing practice of applying its 
capital adequacy standards to foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies. Specifically, in its January 5, 2001, Supervision and 
Regulation Letter 01-1, the Federal Reserve provided an exemption from 
complying with its capital adequacy guidelines (capital exemption) to 
foreign banks that are financial holding companies.[Footnote 25] The 
Federal Reserve's supervisory letter stated that this action was 
consistent with its treatment of domestic banks and financial holding 
companies. Officials noted that domestic firms were expected to hold 
capital on a consolidated basis at the parent level, not the 
intermediate holding company level. According to the supervisory 
letter, the capital exemption recognized that the foreign parent bank 
should be able to hold capital on a consolidated basis on behalf of 
its subsidiaries. 

To qualify for the exemption, the foreign-owned intermediate holding 
company had to meet the standards for financial holding company 
status. Specifically, for a foreign bank to qualify as a financial 
holding company, the Federal Reserve was required to determine that 
the intermediate holding company's parent foreign bank was well 
capitalized and well managed on a consolidated basis.[Footnote 26] 
Also, its U.S. depository subsidiaries were required to be well 
capitalized and well managed.[Footnote 27] The bank subsidiaries of 
foreign bank organizations still were subject to the capital adequacy 
framework (risk-based capital and leverage standards) for insured 
depository institutions.[Footnote 28] 

A relatively small number of foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies have relied on the capital exemption. The Federal Reserve 
reported that 6 of the approximately 50 foreign-owned intermediate 
holding companies used the capital exemption (exempt holding company) 
at some point during the period from 2001 to 2010. At the time the 
Dodd-Frank Act was enacted, in July 2010, 5 foreign-owned intermediate 
holding companies were relying on the capital exemption. By the end of 
December 2010, 1 of these 5 holding companies restructured its U.S. 
operations and no longer relied on the capital exemption. Exempt 
holding companies generally have operated with less capital than their 
foreign and domestic peers in the United States, with 1 such 
institution operating with negative risk-based capital ratios. 

U.S. Regulatory Reform Eliminated Capital Exemption for Certain 
Intermediate Holding Companies: 

The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the capital exemption that the Federal 
Reserve provided to certain foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies. The act requires that after a 5-year phase-in period after 
enactment of the act, these companies must satisfy the capital 
requirements at the intermediate holding company level. The change 
requires capital in the United States to support the foreign bank's 
U.S. operations conducted through a holding company and provides ready 
capital access for depositor and creditor claims in case the 
subsidiary depository or holding company fails and needs to be 
liquidated.[Footnote 29] According to FDIC, the elimination of the 
capital exemption also was intended to better ensure that the foreign-
owned intermediate holding company served as a "source of strength" 
for the insured depository institution.[Footnote 30] Furthermore, 
according to FDIC, subjecting previously exempted foreign-owned 
intermediate holding companies to capital standards would discourage 
excessive financial leveraging. FDIC and some market participants have 
noted that the elimination of the exemption enhances the equal 
treatment of U.S. and foreign-owned holding companies by requiring 
both types of companies to hold similar capital levels in the United 
States. Figure 1, compares the capital structure of U.S.-and foreign-
owned holding companies. 

Figure 1: Capital Relationships in Foreign and Domestic Intermediate 
Holding Companies, after the Dodd-Frank Act: 

[Refer to PDF for image: illustration] 

Foreign parent company[A]: 
* Top tier foreign-owned intermediate holding company[B]: 
- Investment bank; 
- Commercial bank; 
- Insurance company. 

U.S. parent holding company [A,B]: 
* U.S. intermediate holding company: 
- Investment bank; 
- Commercial bank; 
- Insurance company. 

[A] Consolidated U.S. capital. 

[B] Consolidated global capital. 

Source: GAO. 

[End of figure] 

Federal bank regulators have been finalizing proposed rules to 
implement the various capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. 
According to regulators, they expect to issue final rules in 2012 but 
did not provide a specific date. The act requires that the previously 
exempted holding companies comply with the new capital adequacy 
guidelines by July 2015.[Footnote 31] According to the Federal 
Reserve, it retains its supervisory authority to require any bank 
holding company to maintain higher levels of capital when necessary to 
ensure that its U.S. activities are operated in a safe and sound 
manner. This authority may be exercised as part of ongoing bank 
supervision or through the bank application process. We describe the 
different ways in which the exempted companies can satisfy the new 
capital requirements later in this report. 

Stricter Capital Adequacy Standards Also Will Apply to Foreign and 
U.S. Holding Companies: 

In addition to eliminating the capital exemption for certain foreign-
owned intermediate holding companies, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that 
bank and thrift holding companies--domestic or foreign--meet minimum 
risk-based capital and leverage requirements that are not less than 
those that apply to insured depository institutions. The existing 
minimum capital requirements (general risk-based capital guidelines) 
for insured depository institutions are largely based on Basel I (see 
figure 1). Certain institutions--the largest internationally active 
holding companies and insured depository institutions--are subject to 
the U.S. implementation of the advanced approaches in the Basel II 
framework (advanced approaches capital guidelines). These large 
internationally active institutions are required to use their internal 
models to determine their risk-based capital levels, but under the 
Dodd-Frank Act they generally cannot hold less capital than would be 
required under the general risk-based capital guidelines for insured 
depository institutions.[Footnote 32] These institutions will be 
required to calculate their capital under both the general risk-based 
capital guidelines and the advanced approaches capital guidelines. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking regulators to 
implement the act's new requirements by January 2012. On June 14, 
2011, the Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC approved an interagency final 
rule to implement the risk-based capital floors on the Basel II 
advanced approaches and published the final rule on June 28, 2011, 
thereby partially completing the requirements of the Dodd Frank Act. 
[Footnote 33] However, the Federal Reserve has not addressed other 
items required under section 171, such as the phase-out of hybrid 
capital instruments from the tier 1 capital of bank holding companies. 
It is expected that the Federal Reserve will address such items in 
2012. 

Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act also made changes that restricted the 
types of capital instruments that can be included in tier 1. Prior to 
the Act, the general risk-based capital guidelines for bank holding 
companies allowed such institutions to include hybrid debt and equity 
instruments in tier 1 capital whereas such instruments did not count 
in the tier 1 capital of insured depository institutions. Insured 
depository institution regulators (Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC) 
determined that such instruments did not have the ability to absorb 
losses as effectively as other forms of tier 1 capital. The specific 
requirements for the exclusion of hybrid debt or equity instruments 
from tier 1 capital vary according to the asset size and nature of the 
holding company.[Footnote 34] 

Overall Effects of Capital Changes for Exempt Foreign-owned 
Intermediate Holding Companies Likely to Be Limited: 

The elimination of the Federal Reserve's capital exemption for foreign-
owned intermediate holding companies likely will result in exempt 
holding companies restructuring or taking other actions, but the 
overall effects of this change on competition among bank holding 
companies and cost and availability of credit are likely to be small 
for various reasons. First, our analysis of loan markets suggests that 
eliminating the exemption likely would have a limited effect on the 
price and quantity of credit available because the four banks most 
affected have relatively small shares of relatively competitive U.S. 
loan markets. Second, our review of the academic literature and our 
econometric analysis suggest that changes in capital rules that could 
affect certain foreign-owned intermediate holding companies would have 
a limited effect on loan volumes, and the increase in the cost of 
credit likely will add minimally to the cumulative cost of new 
financial regulations. 

Foreign Parent Banks May Restructure or Take Other Actions to Comply 
with New Requirements: 

Foreign parent banks may take a variety of actions, including 
restructuring, to comply with the new requirements, although most are 
waiting for final rules on capital requirements and other Dodd-Frank 
Act-related provisions before making a decision. To date, banking and 
other financial regulators have not issued final rules implementing 
many of the Dodd-Frank Act requirements. Foreign bank officials we 
interviewed told us that they needed a better understanding of all the 
new regulatory provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act before deciding what 
action to take. Most of these bank officials told us they have been 
monitoring how regulators are implementing certain Dodd-Frank Act 
provisions, and the final rules likely will have a great effect on 
their decisions. These provisions include the designation and orderly 
liquidation of systemically important financial institutions (SIFI) 
and a prohibition on proprietary trading.[Footnote 35] One foreign 
bank official told us that implementation of these provisions could 
have a major impact on her bank's U.S. operations. 

Additionally, questions about how the new Basel III accord and other 
global capital rules will be implemented and how they will interact 
with U.S. banking regulations have added to foreign banks' uncertainty 
about planning for compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act. For example, in 
November 2011, the Basel Committee introduced a framework for 
designating global SIFIs.[Footnote 36] Under the Basel framework, 
global SIFIs would be required to hold additional capital to absorb 
losses to account for the greater risks that they pose to the 
financial system. Foreign bank officials we interviewed stated that it 
is too early to tell how new global requirements will interact with 
U.S. requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. 

Despite the uncertainties about the specifics of the regulations, 
foreign banks have been considering a variety of actions to comply 
with the act, according to officials we contacted. Eliminating the 
capital exemption will have the most significant impact on the four 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies that relied on it. 
[Footnote 37] These exempt holding companies and their foreign parent 
banks can comply in several ways. First, foreign parents could issue 
securities (debt or equity) and inject the capital as equity into the 
intermediate holding companies. Second, they could change the mix of 
risky assets they hold. For example, banks must hold more capital 
against certain assets in their portfolio that are considered higher-
risk. The exempt holding companies could sell off these assets and 
acquire higher-quality or less-risky assets. Third, they could pass 
down profits or retain earnings from foreign parents to U.S. holding 
companies. Fourth, foreign parents could restructure their U.S. 
operations by removing any activities not considered banking 
activities from the exempt holding companies.[Footnote 38] Finally, 
the foreign parent banks could close the exempt holding companies and 
leave the U.S. banking market. 

One foreign parent bank restructured its exempt holding company by 
deregistering it in the fall of 2010. Prior to restructuring, the 
exempt holding company had a bank subsidiary, a broker-dealer 
subsidiary, and several other subsidiaries. The bank accounted for a 
small percentage of the exempt holding company's consolidated assets 
and revenues, but the holding company would be subject to the new 
capital requirement because it was supervised as a bank holding 
company by the Federal Reserve. After the restructuring, the small 
bank became a subsidiary of one bank holding company, while the broker-
dealer and the other nonbank entities became subsidiaries of a 
different holding company that is not a bank holding company and 
therefore not subject to bank holding capital requirements. The 
foreign bank stated that restructuring would better align both foreign 
parent bank and U.S. bank holding company with new capital 
requirements. 

How the four foreign parent banks with exempt holding companies choose 
to comply will vary. For example, officials from one exempt holding 
company told us that the foreign parent bank might inject several 
billions of dollars in common equity into the intermediate U.S. 
holding company. Officials from a second exempt holding company told 
us they were considering a combination of actions, including 
recapitalizing its holding company by retaining earnings, reducing the 
risky assets against which it must hold capital, and potentially 
restructuring the holding company. Officials from another exempt 
holding company said that it would review business activities under 
the holding company to reduce risky assets that would require holding 
higher amounts of capital. Finally, the fourth exempt holding company 
stated in its annual report to SEC that the holding company might 
restructure, increase its capital, or both. 

Eliminating the Exemption Likely Will Have Limited Effects on Overall 
Competition and Credit: 

Given the size of the market and the holding companies affected, 
elimination of the capital exemption for foreign-owned holding 
companies under the Dodd-Frank Act likely will have limited effects on 
the overall competitive environment and the cost and availability of 
credit to borrowers. Our analysis assesses the impact of the four 
exempt holding companies exiting the U.S. banking market or raising 
additional capital to meet regulatory standards. 

The Number and Market Shares of Exempt Holding Companies Are Small: 

The number of exempt holding companies and their shares of most 
national loan markets are small. As of December 31, 2010, four exempt 
holding companies relied on the Federal Reserve's capital exemption. 
These exempt holding companies accounted for about 3.1 percent of the 
loans on the balance sheets of all bank holding companies in the 
United States (see table 3).[Footnote 39] Therefore, any actions they 
may take to respond to the elimination of the capital exemption likely 
will have a small effect on the overall credit market. 

Table 3: Bank Holding Company Loan Market Shares, as of December 31, 
2010 By Percentage: 

Loan market: Total net loans and leases; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 3.1%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 6.6%; 
U.S.: 90.3%. 

Loan market: Residential construction loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 3.0%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 5.2%; 
U.S.: 91.9%. 

Loan market: Nonresidential construction, land development, and other 
land loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 2.2%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 6.8%; 
U.S.: 91.0%. 

Loan market: Agricultural real estate loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 10.4%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 1.5%; 
U.S.: 88.1%. 

Loan market: Home equity lines of credit; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 1.8%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 6.2%; 
U.S.: 92.0%. 

Loan market: First-lien residential mortgages; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 1.9%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 8.1%; 
U.S.: 90.0%. 

Loan market: Junior-lien residential mortgages; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 1.9%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 10.1%; 
U.S.: 88.0%. 

Loan market: Multifamily residential property loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 1.8%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 5.2%; 
U.S.: 92.9%. 

Loan market: Owner-occupied commercial real estate loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 3.6%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 4.9%; 
U.S.: 91.5%. 

Loan market: Nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 3.8%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 5.7%; 
U.S.: 90.5%. 

Loan market: Agricultural production loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 11.4%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 3.0%; 
U.S.: 85.7%. 

Loan market: Commercial and industrial loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 3.9%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 7.0%; 
U.S.: 89.1%. 

Loan market: Consumer loans; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 1.5%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 6.7%; 
U.S.: 91.7%. 

Loan market: Lease financing receivables; 
Bank holding company type: 
Exempt foreign-owned: 4.5%; 
Nonexempt foreign-owned: 4.0%; 
U.S.: 91.4%. 

Sources: GAO analysis of Federal Reserve and SNL Financial data. 

Note: Bank holding companies include top-tier bank holding companies 
and are grouped by type. Calculations are for domestic offices of bank 
holding companies only. Exempt and nonexempt holding companies were 
identified by the Federal Reserve as of December 31, 2010. Market 
shares may not sum to 100 percent because of rounding. 

[End of table] 

Exempt holding companies accounted for varying amounts of different 
types of loans. In 2010, they accounted for less than 5 percent each 
of the construction and land loans, residential real estate loans, 
commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans, 
consumer loans, and leases on the balance sheets of bank holding 
companies in the United States. However, they accounted for more than 
10 percent each of agricultural real estate loans and agricultural 
production loans. Although exempt holding companies and their foreign 
parent banks can take a variety of approaches to comply with the new 
capital rules, the effects of those approaches on credit markets--
overall or in specific segments--likely will be small because of the 
relatively small share of the market that exempt holding companies 
hold. 

Foreign Banks' Exit from Credit Markets Would Have a Limited Effect on 
Competition and Cost and Availability of Credit: 

U.S. credit markets likely would remain unconcentrated even if exempt 
holding companies exited the market and sold their loans to other bank 
holding companies. To assess the impact of eliminating the Federal 
Reserve's capital exemption on competition among bank holding 
companies, we calculated the HHI, a key statistical indicator used to 
assess the market concentration and the potential for firms to 
exercise market power.[Footnote 40] As figure 2 shows, the HHI for the 
overall loan market for 2010 is well below 1,500--the threshold for 
moderate concentration--as are the HHIs for the 13 specific loan 
markets we analyzed.[Footnote 41] Because these loan markets appear to 
be unconcentrated, bank holding companies in these markets likely have 
little ability to exercise market power by raising prices, reducing 
the quantity of credit available, diminishing innovation, or otherwise 
harming customers as a result of diminished competitive constraints or 
incentives at least at the national level. As we discuss later, to the 
extent that markets are segmented by regions, or small businesses are 
limited in their ability to access credit, these results may not hold 
for all customers. 

Figure 2: Herfindahl-Hirschman Index of Concentration in Loan Markets, 
as of December 31, 2010: 

[Refer to PDF for image: stacked horizontal bar graph] 

Threshold for moderate concentration: 1,500; 
Threshold for high concentration: 2,500. 

Market: Home equity lines of credit; 
Actual HHI: 1060; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 37; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 33. 

Market: First-lien residential mortgages; 
Actual HHI: 992; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 38; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 46. 

Market: Consumer loans; 
Actual HHI: 941; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 28; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 27. 

Market: Junior-lien residential mortgages; 
Actual HHI: 837; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 30; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 37. 

Market: Agricultural real estate loans; 
Actual HHI: 720; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 90; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 453. 

Market: Lease financing receivables; 
Actual HHI: 697; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 56; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 108. 

Market: Multifamily residential property loans; 
Actual HHI: 682; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 24; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 57. 

Market: Commercial and industrial loans; 
Actual HHI: 499; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 37; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 78. 

Market: Agricultural production loans; 
Actual HHI: 465; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 48; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 439. 

Market: Nonresidential construction, all land development, and other 
land loans; 
Actual HHI: 331; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 13; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 41. 

Market: Nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans; 
Actual HHI: 243; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 14; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 65. 

Market: Residential construction loans; 
Actual HHI: 240; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 10; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 46. 

Market: Owner-occupied commercial real estate loans; 
Actual HHI: 225; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 11; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 77. 

Market: Total domestic loans and leases; 
Actual HHI: 591; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets
are distributed proportionally by remaining bank holding companies: 36; 
Estimated HHI if all exempt holding companies exit and their assets 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market: 62. 

Source: GAO analysis of data from the Department of Justice, the 
Federal Reserve, the Federal Trade Commission, and SNL. 

[End of figure] 

Faced with the elimination of the Federal Reserve's capital exemption 
and new minimum capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, foreign 
banks with exempt holding companies could choose to divest their banks 
and exit the U.S. banking market. To estimate the effect of this 
particular response on loan market concentration, we estimated the 
change in loan market concentration on loan markets in two alternative 
scenarios in which all four of the exempt holding companies cease 
making loans and sell their portfolios to other bank holding 
companies. In the first scenario, the assets of exempt holding 
companies are acquired by remaining bank holding companies in 
proportion to their market share. In the second scenario, the assets 
of exempt holding companies are acquired by the largest bank holding 
company remaining in the loan market. Since not all exempt holding 
companies are likely to exit the U.S. market, these scenarios provide 
estimates of the effect of the elimination of the Federal Reserve's 
capital exemption on market concentration in the most extreme cases. 

Estimated changes in the HHIs for the overall loan market in these 
alternative scenarios indicate that the overall loan market is 
unlikely to become concentrated even if all exempt holding companies 
exited the U.S. market. As figure 2 shows, the overall loan market 
remains unconcentrated in both scenarios, suggesting that the 
remaining bank holding companies still would not have sufficient 
potential to use market power to increase loan prices above 
competitive levels or reduce the quantity of loans available to 
borrowers. Similar results were obtained when we applied the 
alternative scenarios to various segments of the credit market. 

If Exempt Holding Companies Take Actions to Comply, Effects on the 
Cost and Availability of Credit Would Be Small: 

The total capital that the four exempt holding companies would need to 
raise to meet the same capital standards as their domestic 
counterparts is small relative to the total capital in the U.S. 
banking sector, thus limiting the effect on the cost and availability 
of credit. Of the four exempt holding companies remaining at the end 
of 2010, three have indicated they might undertake actions to comply 
with the minimum capital standards. As table 4 shows, to be considered 
as meeting the minimum capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, 
the three exempt holding companies collectively would need $3.2 
billion in additional capital, only $530 million of which would need 
to be in the form of tier 1 common equity to meet the leverage ratio 
requirement. This amount is less than 0.21 percent of the approximate 
$1.5 trillion in total equity outstanding for the U.S. banking sector. 
Two of the exempt holding companies have sufficient tier 1 capital and 
would be able to meet the total capital requirement by raising cheaper 
supplementary capital.[Footnote 42] If the exempt holding companies 
decided to exceed the minimum requirements and meet the equivalent of 
the well-capitalized requirements for banks and thrifts, the 
difference, $6.6 billion, would be less than 0.44 percent of the total 
equity outstanding. Although this is a sizable capital deficit at the 
individual holding company level, it would represent a small shock to 
the aggregate U.S. banking sector. 

Table 4: Capital Ratios and Capital Deficits for the Four Exempt 
Holding Companies Relative to Certain Capital Levels, as of December 
31, 2010: 

Capital levels: 

Dodd-Frank Act minimum capital requirements; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: 4%; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): 8%; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: 3%-4%[A]. 

Well-capitalized standard[B]; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: 6%; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): 10%; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: 5%. 

Exempt holding companies' capital ratios: 

Company 1; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: Exceeds minimum; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): Does not meet minimum; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: Does not meet minimum. 

Company 2; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: Exceeds minimum; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): Does not meet minimum; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: Exceeds minimum. 

Company 3; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: Exceeds minimum; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): Does not meet minimum; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: Exceeds minimum. 

Company 4[C]; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: Does not meet minimum; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): Does not meet minimum; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: Does not meet minimum. 

Capital deficit (dollars in billions): 

Amount needed to meet Dodd-Frank Act minimum capital: 

Company 1; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: 0; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $0.99; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $0.53. 

Company 2; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: 0; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $1.23; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: 0. 

Company 3; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: 0; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $0.97; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: 0. 

Company 4[C]; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $10.3; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $14.2; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $21.5. 

Total company 1-company 4; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $10.3; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $17.4; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $22.0. 

Total company 1-company 3; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: 0; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $3.19; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $0.53. 

Amount needed to be well capitalized[B]: 

Company 1; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $0.7; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $2.7; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $3.76. 

Company 2; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $0.8; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $2.3; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $0.91. 

Company 3; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $0.5; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $1.6; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $0.68. 

Company 4[C]; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $12.2; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $16.2; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $31.6. 

Total company 1-company 4; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $14.2; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $22.8; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $37. 

Total company 1-company 3; 
Tier 1 risk-based ratio: $2.0; 
Total risk-based ratio (tier 1 + tier 2): $6.6; 
Tier 1 leverage ratio: $5.4. 

Sources: GAO analysis of Federal Reserve and SNL Financial data. 

[A] The minimum leverage ratio is 3 percent for bank and thrift 
holding companies with the highest examination ratings and not 
exhibiting rapid growth or other indicators of heightened risk, and 
for those that have implemented a risk-based capital measure for 
market risk, otherwise a 4 percent minimum leverage ratio applies. 

[B] The analysis uses the explicit criteria for "well capitalized" 
that apply to banks and thrifts. 

[C] Because of various factors, it is possible that company 4 will not 
take actions to meet the new requirements, and its foreign parent bank 
has been considering plans to restructure its operations, which would 
eliminate the need to raise capital. As a result, we include capital 
deficit totals that exclude company 4. 

[End of table] 

The remaining exempt holding company (company 4, in table 4) would be 
significantly below the new minimum capital requirements, with a 
capital shortfall of over $21.5 billion. However, domestic loans make 
up 11 percent of its total assets, while its broker-dealer operations 
are much larger. Therefore, maintaining a holding company designation, 
which creates a significant capital requirement on its entire asset 
pool, appears unlikely. As discussed earlier, the company has stated 
that it has been considering a variety of options, including 
restructuring. A restructuring may reduce the consolidated capital 
requirements applied to the foreign holding company and thus mitigate 
the need to raise capital to meet the new minimum capital 
requirements.[Footnote 43] 

However, as mentioned previously, exempt holding companies have other 
ways of adjusting to the elimination of the capital exemption and the 
forthcoming, more stringent capital requirements. For example, in 
addition to reducing assets or shifting portfolios toward less-risky 
assets, foreign parent banks also can issue new common equity 
(diluting existing shareholders), reduce or suspend dividend payments, 
or employ other strategies to increase retained earnings.[Footnote 44] 
Because these alternatives each could imply different effects on 
credit markets, estimating the potential impact of heightened capital 
requirements for exempt holding companies on credit markets 
empirically would be useful (based on estimates of the relationship 
between capital and lending activity observed through rigorous 
analysis of data). We used a methodology designed to (1) leverage 
information about key relationships embedded in aggregated historical 
data, (2) account for feedback between economic variables, (3) control 
for other forces that might affect loan credit markets outside of 
capital positions, and (4) provide the opportunity to evaluate the 
dynamic response of loan volume growth and other important variables 
to shocks to bank capital.[Footnote 45] The methodology does not 
assume any particular manner of adjustment by the holding companies 
but focuses on the ultimate impact on loan volumes and spreads. 

Although the econometric model we developed indicates that stronger 
capital requirements negatively affect lending activity, the impacts 
at the aggregate level are small. We evaluated the impact of the new 
requirements using two scenarios--exempt holding companies experienced 
a capital deficit when compared with the (1) minimum capital 
requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act or (2) the well-capitalized 
standard that applies to banks and thrifts. Specifically, our model 
suggests the elimination of the capital exemption would lead aggregate 
loan volumes to decline by roughly 0.2 percent even if the affected 
exempt holding companies desired to meet the equivalent of the well-
capitalized standard (see table 5). If the affected banks desired to 
meet the minimum capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, loan 
volumes would decline by less than 0.1 percent. Because the exempt 
holding companies would face capital deficits, the impact on the 
affected banks could be significant and would vary with the degree of 
undercapitalization. For example, loan growth would decline by 5.0 
percentage points at company 1, 6.6 percentage points at company 2, 
and 7.9 percentage points at company 3 if the targeted total capital 
ratio was 10 percent under the well-capitalized standard, and total 
loan volumes would fall by $14.2 billion, or 0.2 percent of total 
loans for the banking sector. If the affected banks' targeted total 
capital ratio was 8 percent (that is, the minimum capital 
requirement), our model suggests total loan growth at the three banks 
would decline by $6.8 billion, or 0.09 percent of total loans for the 
banking sector.[Footnote 46] However, these estimates may overstate 
the impact on aggregate loan volumes because we assume no transition 
period for adjusting to the higher capital requirements and that other 
banks do not immediately replace the decline in loan volumes at the 
affected institutions.[Footnote 47] 

Table 5: Aggregate Impacts of Eliminating the Capital Exemption: 

Loan volumes: 

GAO model; 
Impact if the exempt holding companies needed to take actions to meet 
certain capital levels: 
Minimum capital requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act: -0.09%; 
Well capitalized standard[A]: -0.19%. 

Estimate using other studies (average); 
Impact if the exempt holding companies needed to take actions to meet 
certain capital levels: 
Minimum capital requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act: -0.06%; 
Well capitalized standard[A]: -0.12%. 

Lending spreads (basis points): 

GAO model; 
Impact if the exempt holding companies needed to take actions to meet 
certain capital levels: 
Minimum capital requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act: 0.51%; 
Well capitalized standard[A]: 1.06%. 

Estimate using other studies (average); 
Impact if the exempt holding companies needed to take actions to meet 
certain capital levels: 
Minimum capital requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act: 0.49%; 
Well capitalized standard[A]: 1.00%. 

Sources: GAO and various empirical studies evaluating the relationship 
between bank capital and lending activity. 

Notes: A basis point is a common measure used in quoting yield on 
bills, notes, and bonds and represents 1/100 of a percent of yield. 
Lending spreads are the commercial and industrial loan rate relative 
to the federal funds rate. 

[A] The analysis uses the explicit criteria for "well-capitalized" 
that apply to banks and thrifts. 

[End of table] 

Because the capital exemption affects only a few institutions 
operating in highly competitive loan markets, the impact on the cost 
of credit, although uncertain, is likely to be small. Our model 
suggests that a capital shock equivalent to that implied by the 
elimination of the capital exemption (small at the aggregate level) 
would lead to an industrywide increase in lending spreads of a little 
over 1 basis point (0.01 percentage points).[Footnote 48] If the 
exempt companies were measured against the minimum capital 
requirements, the impact on lending spreads would be less than 1 basis 
point. However, because the elimination would not result in a general 
shock across all banks, whether any impact on lending rates would be 
felt at the aggregate level is unclear. The competitive nature of loan 
markets makes passing on the higher cost of holding more capital to 
borrowers in the form of higher loan rates difficult for a bank 
experiencing a firm-specific capital shock. Because the loan markets 
are not highly concentrated and are competitive (as discussed 
earlier), the affected exempt holding companies likely would lose 
business to other banks if they chose to increase loan rates 
significantly.[Footnote 49] Some studies have found evidence of a 
relationship between higher capital holdings and market share during 
and following banking crises.[Footnote 50] To avoid losing business to 
well-capitalized institutions, the affected holding companies likely 
would reduce the amount of risky assets to some extent or undertake 
other actions rather than attempting to pass the full cost of holding 
additional capital to select customers. Appendix II contains more 
information on our analysis of these types of scenarios. 

In general, our results for loan volumes and cost and availability of 
credit should be interpreted with caution because of the 
methodological and other limitations associated with our approach. For 
example, our estimates have wide confidence intervals suggesting 
considerable uncertainty in the results (see appendix I for 
limitations). As such, considering our results in the context of a 
wider body of empirical literature is useful. Table 5 also includes 
the average impact on loan volumes and lending rates based on other 
studies combined with our calculation of the capital deficit stemming 
from the elimination of the capital exemption.[Footnote 51] The 
results from our model, although larger for both loan growth and 
lending spreads, are consistent with the average we calculated from a 
number of empirical studies examining the relationship between bank 
capital and lending activity. These studies represent a variety of 
methodologies, each with its own limitations. Nevertheless, even the 
largest estimate we identified in the literature still would imply a 
relatively small impact of the exemption on credit markets. 

Particular segments of the market may be affected more than others. 
For example, customers in agricultural real estate and agricultural 
production loan markets may experience impacts larger than those 
suggested by the aggregate analysis. Similarly, two of the exempt 
holding companies have a significant presence in the western states, 
while another has a significant presence on the East Coast. While the 
impact on the price and quantity of credit available may vary across 
regions, modeling limitations restrict our ability to estimate 
potential regional differences. Such regional impacts should be 
mitigated to a significant extent by the national nature of many loan 
markets. This analysis becomes much more complicated and uncertain 
once consideration is given to the impact of the various provisions of 
the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, which may result in a large number 
of institutions looking to replace and raise capital if banks seek to 
exceed the new regulatory minimums by the same margin they exceed them 
now. However, our results indicate that the elimination of the capital 
exemption would add minimally, if at all, to the cumulative economic 
impacts of these regulations. 

Market Participants Concerned about Differing Capital Regimes and 
Competitive Effects Abroad: 

Market participants expressed uncertainty about how changes in capital 
requirements might affect the competitiveness of U.S. banks operating 
abroad, partly because the international regulatory landscape remains 
unsettled. The largest internationally active U.S. banks derive a 
significant portion of their revenues from their operations abroad and 
are subject to multiple regulatory regimes. Regulatory capital 
requirements have become more stringent globally with the goal of 
reducing bank failures and creating a more stable financial system. 
However, bank officials we contacted were uncertain how changes in 
capital requirements might affect their competitiveness abroad and 
were monitoring U.S. and international reforms closely to assess any 
impact on their cost of capital, lending ability, and business 
competitiveness. They were concerned that fragmented or conflicting 
regulations might restrict banks' ability to use capital efficiently. 
Some U.S. banks believed that they might be at a competitive 
disadvantage to the extent that U.S. banks would be subject to higher 
capital requirements than banks from other countries. Finally, as 
major regulatory changes stemming from the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III, 
and country-specific reforms are finalized and implemented, many U.S. 
bank officials we interviewed expressed concerns about the added costs 
of compliance with multiple regulatory regimes. 

The Largest Internationally Active U.S. Banks Derive Significant 
Revenues from International Operations: 

The largest internationally active U.S. banks maintained a strong 
presence in major foreign markets, where they derived close to one-
third of their revenues on average in 2010 (see figure 3). One of the 
largest internationally active U.S. banks derived close to 60 percent 
of its total revenues from foreign operations in 2010. In the last 3 
years, revenues from foreign operations, although varying by bank and 
geographical region, have decreased slightly on a percentage basis. 

Figure 3: Percentage and Dollars of Domestic versus Foreign Revenues 
of the Six Largest Internationally Active U.S. Banks, from 2005 to 
2010: 

[Refer to PDF for image: 2 vertical bar graphs] 

Year: 2005; 
U.S.: 71.7%; $177.0 billion; 
Foreign: 28.3%; $70 billion; 
Total: $247.7 billion. 

Year: 2006; 
U.S.: 68.6%; $203.5 billion; 
Foreign: 31.4%; $93.1 billion; 
Total: $296.6 billion. 

Year: 2007; 
U.S.: 63.1%; $191.6 billion; 
Foreign: 36.9%; $111.9 billion; 
Total: $303.5 billion. 

Year: 2008; 
U.S.: 66.8%; $173.8 billion; 
Foreign: 33.2%; $86.3 billion; 
Total: $260.1 billion. 

Year: 2009; 
U.S.: 67.5%; $241.8 billion; 
Foreign: 32.5%; $116.2 billion; 
Total: $358 billion. 

Year: 2010; 
U.S.: 68.3%; $248 billion; 
Foreign: 31.7%; $115.2 billion; 
Total: $363.2 billion. 

Source: GAO analysis of internationally active U.S. banks annual 
report data. 

[End of figure] 

Generally, the largest internationally active U.S. banks divide their 
operations into the following four geographical regions: (1) North 
America; (2) Europe, the Middle East, and Africa; (3) Asia or Asia/ 
Pacific; and (4) Latin America or Latin America/Caribbean.[Footnote 
52] As figure 4 shows, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa provided 
the biggest share (about 50 percent) of all foreign revenues. Revenues 
from the Asian and Pacific countries accounted for about 30 percent of 
foreign revenues compared with approximately 19 percent from Latin 
America. 

Figure 4: Foreign Revenues of Six Largest Internationally Active U.S. 
Banks in 2010, by Region: 

[Refer to PDF for image: pie-chart and subchart] 

North America: 68%; 
Foreign: 32%: 
* Europe, Middle East, and Africa: 50%; 
* Asia/Pacific: 30%; 
* Latin America/Caribbean: 19%; 
* Other: 1%. 

Source: GAO analysis of internationally active U.S. banks annual 
report data. 

[End of figure] 

The large internationally active U.S. banks compete with large foreign-
based banks and other internationally active U.S. banks across various 
product and geographic markets. Internationally active U.S. banks have 
varying lines of business. Although some focus on wholesale 
activities, one (Citigroup) is engaged in retail banking activities in 
more than 100 countries. In wholesale markets, some U.S. banks, like 
JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, are active in making commercial 
and industrial loans, while others, like Goldman Sachs and Morgan 
Stanley, hold a larger percentage of their assets as trading assets 
and engage in market making and trading in securities and derivative 
instruments. One of the largest internationally active U.S. banks, 
Bank of New York Mellon, primarily provides custody and asset 
management services and securities servicing. In this capacity, it 
competes with the largest U.S. banks and foreign-based banks that 
provide trust as well as banking and brokerage services to high-net-
worth clients. 

Internationally Active U.S. Banks Will Face Stricter Capital Regimes 
in Multiple Jurisdictions: 

In the wake of the 2007-2009 financial crisis, international 
jurisdictions have pursued more stringent capital requirements, and 
large, internationally active U.S. banks will be subject to the 
regulatory requirements of various foreign regulators. For example, in 
Europe, large internationally active U.S. banks will be subject to 
major new regulations, including those created by the Basel Committee 
and the European Commission.[Footnote 53] The G-20 countries, which 
include the United States, adopted the Basel III agreements in 
November 2010, and the individual countries are responsible for 
incorporating the new agreements into national laws and regulations. 
[Footnote 54] 

On July 20, 2011, the European Commission published a legislative 
proposal known generally as Capital Requirement Directive 4 (CRD4) to 
implement the proposals of Basel III into European Union law. The 
commission staff we spoke with indicated that there are many 
legislative initiatives at the European Union level that could affect 
U.S. internationally active banks operating in Europe, but some key 
ones, in addition to CRD4, are the Capital Requirement Directive 3 
(CRD3) and the Crisis Management Directive. CRD3 puts in place 
stricter capital requirements, some of which became effective at the 
end of 2011.[Footnote 55] Among other things, CRD3 requires banks to 
implement remuneration policies that are consistent with their long-
term financial results and do not encourage excessive risk taking. For 
example, at least 40 percent of bonuses must be deferred 3-5 years and 
at least 50 percent must consist of equity or equity-like instruments 
or long-dated instruments that are convertible into tier 1 capital 
during emergency situations. The Crisis Management Directive will set 
out the different tools for resolutions of bank failures in Europe. It 
principally aims to provide the authorities with tools and powers to 
intervene in banks at a sufficiently early stage and is due to be 
adopted formally in November 2011.[Footnote 56] This resolution 
authority also will apply to the European subsidiaries of U.S. banks. 

In addition to the European Union regulatory initiatives, individual 
countries plan to implement additional measures. For example, the 
United Kingdom (UK) independently introduced a permanent levy on 
banks' balance sheets on January 1, 2011, to encourage banks to move 
to less-risky funding profiles, according to the UK's Her Majesty's 
Treasury. The levy applies to some UK banks, building societies, and 
UK operations of foreign banks with more than £20 billion in 
liabilities. The rate for 2011 will be 0.05 percent, and it will rise 
to 0.075 percent in 2012. In June 2010, France and Germany agreed to 
similar measures and have been enacting them. 

Differing International Regulations Could Affect U.S. Banks' 
Competitiveness Abroad: 

U.S. financial regulators and market participants have expressed 
concern about the extent to which the capital requirements and other 
financial regulations resulting from Basel III could be harmonized 
across national jurisdictions and how consistently they would be 
enforced. For example, U.S. regulators noted that the supervisory 
standard for how banks measure risk-weighted assets--the basis for 
regulatory capital ratios--under Basel III could be more transparent. 
In June 2011, the FDIC Chairman stated that European banks continued 
to in effect set their own capital requirements using banks' internal 
risk estimates--with risk-based capital determined by bank management 
assumptions, unconstrained by any objective hard limits and no 
leverage constraints.[Footnote 57] Other, foreign regulators also 
stated that international differences in the calculation of risk-
weighted assets could result from assigning inconsistent risk weights 
on the same types of assets and could undermine Basel III. Some 
foreign banks we interviewed told us that comparing risk-weighted 
assets across banks was challenging because of differing reporting, 
legal, and accounting frameworks. For example, comparisons of 
institutions from the United States with those from the European Union 
are difficult because U.S. banks still are transitioning from Basel I 
to Basel II and do not publicly report Basel II risk-based capital 
requirements. Conversely, banks in the European Union are operating 
under Basel II and are publicly reporting their risk-based capital 
ratios. 

Additionally, U.S. regulators noted the potential for adverse 
competitive effects on banks with overseas operations from a Basel III 
provision for reciprocal countercyclical buffers.[Footnote 58] If a 
regulator in one country issues an "excessive credit growth" 
declaration (that is, identifies a "bubble" when excess aggregate 
credit growth is judged to be associated with a buildup of systemwide 
risk), then all banks operating in that country would have to meet 
higher capital requirements. Regulators in other countries also could 
require banks operating in their countries to hold proportionately 
higher capital. For example, a U.S. bank operating in multiple 
countries would be subject to the cumulative effect of each country's 
additional requirements in times of excess aggregate credit growth, 
and U.S. banking regulators would have no say over these declarations. 

However, other factors may help ease concerns about inconsistent 
implementation of financial regulations. U.S. regulatory officials 
have observed that a high level of coordination among international 
regulators would help ensure that banks hold significantly more 
capital, that the capital will truly be able to absorb losses of a 
magnitude associated with the crisis without recourse to taxpayer 
support, and that the level and definition of capital will be uniform 
across borders. In addition, the quantity and quality of capital held 
by the largest internationally active U.S. and foreign banks has 
increased significantly in the past few years. Specifically, among the 
50 largest global banks, tier 1 capital adequacy ratios have climbed 
from 8.1 percent in 2007 to 11.3 percent at the end of 2010. Since the 
end of 2008, the 19 largest bank holding companies in the United 
States that were subjected to stress tests increased common equity by 
more than $300 billion. Furthermore, European banks raised $121 
billion in capital since Europe's June 2010 stress test exercise. 

Conflicting Regulations Might Restrict Banks' Ability to Use Capital 
Efficiently: 

In addition to the specific concerns related to the implementation of 
Basel III, both U.S. and foreign bank officials we interviewed told us 
that they were concerned that fragmented or conflicting regulations in 
the United States and other jurisdictions might restrict banks' 
ability to use capital efficiently. According to U.S. and foreign bank 
officials, inconsistent capital requirements among multiple regulatory 
regimes may restrict banks' ability to move capital across 
jurisdictions. For example, according to regulators and U.S. banks we 
interviewed, since the 2007-2009 financial crisis, foreign regulators 
have become more sensitive to how much capital foreign entities in 
their jurisdiction hold. Some foreign bank regulators have required 
banks to "ring fence" capital on the balance sheet as a way to protect 
and hold dedicated capital for that bank subsidiary in their legal 
jurisdiction in case of financial difficulties or bankruptcy. Foreign 
bank regulators were concerned that the parent company would 
reallocate capital in their jurisdiction to fund the parent company 
located outside of their jurisdiction, potentially resulting in the 
subsidiary being undercapitalized. According to some banks we 
interviewed ring fencing would be costly for banks operating abroad as 
it restricts capital and requires systems for keeping operations 
segregated across countries. 

In another example, U.S. bank officials noted that recent reforms have 
changed what types of capital instruments can be counted as tier 1 
capital. As a result, U.S. banks may not have access to tax-efficient 
tier 1 instruments that foreign bank competitors can issue because of 
differences in national tax policies. Specifically, prior to the 
recent changes under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, U.S. bank 
holding companies could issue tier 1 trust-preferred securities with 
dividend payments that were tax-deductible. With the exclusion of 
trust-preferred securities from tier 1, large internationally active 
banks likely will not have any tax-efficient alternative in the United 
States, while foreign banks in certain jurisdictions will continue to 
have access to certain capital instruments, such as noncumulative 
perpetual preferred shares, that confer some tax benefits because of 
local tax laws.[Footnote 59] 

Banks Could Face Additional Costs to Comply with Multiple Regulatory 
Regimes: 

As major regulatory changes stemming from the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel 
III, and country-specific reforms are finalized and implemented, many 
U.S. and foreign bank officials we interviewed expressed concerns 
about the added costs of compliance with multiple regulatory regimes. 
Because these regulations have not been implemented yet, how they may 
affect the operations of U.S. banks abroad is not known. For example, 
according to U.S. bank officials, they cannot yet estimate the cost 
associated with implementing and complying with the new risk-based 
capital and leverage requirements under Basel III. Moreover, 
implementation of key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the new 
Basel III capital and liquidity requirements will be particularly 
challenging because of the number of related provisions that must be 
considered together. According to a testimony given by the Acting 
Comptroller of OCC, regulators have been trying to understand not only 
how individual provisions will affect the international 
competitiveness of U.S. firms, but also how the interactions of the 
various requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III will affect 
U.S. firms domestically.[Footnote 60] 

According to testimony from an industry expert, areas other than the 
bank capital provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act can affect costs 
(including compliance costs and competition): prohibition of 
proprietary trading by banks, exclusion of the use of external credit 
ratings for determining risk weighting, regulations governing 
derivatives, the designation and regulation of SIFIs, and resolution 
of insolvent financial firms.[Footnote 61] For example, bank officials 
we interviewed told us that the Dodd-Frank Act's exclusion of the use 
of external credit ratings for determining risk weighting will create 
additional costs to U.S. banks. The banks would have to develop their 
own methods for performing these calculations, potentially putting 
them at a competitive disadvantage (including higher cost) 
internationally because European banks could still use such credit 
ratings, which are widely understood and used by investors. U.S. bank 
officials also noted that they would incur increased administrative 
costs under multiple regulatory regimes as they would have to 
implement and comply with multiple capital ratios, including those for 
the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Many U.S. banks GAO interviewed 
expressed concerns about the added costs of compliance with multiple 
regulatory regimes and the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the global 
competitiveness of U.S. banks, but these concerns would need to be 
considered against the potential benefits of a safer and sounder 
financial system. 

Agency Comments: 

We provided a draft of this report to the FDIC, the Federal Reserve 
and OCC for their review and comment. Each of the federal banking 
regulators provided technical comments that were incorporated in the 
report, as appropriate. 

We are sending copies of this report to appropriate congressional 
committees, FDIC, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and the Department of the 
Treasury, and other interested parties. In addition, the report is 
available at no charge on the GAO website at [hyperlink, 
http://www.gao.gov]. 

If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please 
contact me at (202) 512-2642 or mccoolt@gao.gov. Contact points for 
our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found 
on the last page of this report. GAO staff who made key contributions 
to this report are listed in appendix VI. 

Signed by: 

Thomas J. McCool: 
Director, Center for Economics Applied Research and Methods: 

[End of section] 

Appendix I: Objectives, Scope, and Methodology: 

The objectives of the report were to examine (1) the regulation of 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies in the United States, (2) 
the potential effects of changes in U.S. capital requirements on 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies, and (3) banks' views on 
the potential effects of changes in U.S. capital requirements on U.S.-
owned banks operating abroad. This report focuses on intermediate 
holding companies owned by a foreign parent bank (that is, a foreign 
banking organization) and the largest internationally active U.S. 
banks based on their level of foreign business activity.[Footnote 62] 
The foreign parent bank may have its U.S. subsidiaries owned or 
controlled by an intermediate bank or thrift holding company in the 
United States (the organization between the subsidiary bank and the 
foreign parent bank) primarily to take advantage of tax or regulatory 
benefits.[Footnote 63] Under this corporate structure, the 
intermediate holding company represents the foreign parent bank's top-
tiered legal entity in the United States and is regulated by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). 

To describe how foreign holding companies are regulated and supervised 
in the United States, we reviewed relevant federal and state banking 
laws and regulations (such as the International Banking Act of 1978, 
Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991, section 171 of the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act [Dodd-Frank 
Act], and New York state banking law). We reviewed regulatory 
documents such as the Federal Reserve's Consolidated Financial 
Statements for Bank Holding Companies--FR Y-9C.[Footnote 64] Further, 
we reviewed supervisory guidance such as Supervision and Regulation 
Letter 01-1 (the capital exemption), the final rule that establishes a 
floor for the risk-based capital requirements applicable to the 
largest internationally active banks, relevant published reports, 
testimonies, speeches, articles, and relevant prior GAO reports. 
[Footnote 65] We interviewed supervisory officials at the Federal 
Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), 
New York State Banking Department, and officials at the Department of 
the Treasury, the European Commission (a European Union entity that, 
among other things, through capital directives sets out general 
capital rules to be transferred into national law by each of the 27 
European Union countries as they deem appropriate), foreign and U.S. 
bank holding companies, a foreign trade association, credit rating 
agencies, and law firms.[Footnote 66] In addition, we received written 
responses to questions from the European Banking Authority (European 
banking regulator) and attended a conference on the implications of 
new capital rules for foreign banks. 

To assess the potential effects of changes in capital requirements for 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies, we reviewed section 171 
of the Dodd-Frank Act, and proposed and final capital rules for 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies and related comment 
letters. We reviewed various proposed and final international capital 
rules. We reviewed Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulatory 
filings of foreign bank holding companies. We interviewed foreign bank 
regulators, foreign and U.S. bank holding companies, credit rating 
agencies, and industry experts on the effects of the new capital 
requirements on foreign banks operating in the United States. We also 
reviewed academic studies on the impact of higher capital requirements 
on the cost of capital and lending and obtained the views of foreign 
and domestic banks, credit rating agencies, and industry experts. 

To assess the extent to which credit markets are likely to be affected 
by removal of the capital exemption, we calculated market shares for 
each group of bank holding companies in loan markets as of December 
31, 2010. We obtained balance sheet data for bank holding companies as 
of December 31, 2010, from SNL Financial, which reports data for bank 
holding companies based on forms FR Y-9C submitted to the Federal 
Reserve. In general, only top-tier bank holding companies with 
consolidated assets of $500 million or more are required to submit FR 
Y-9Cs. To avoid double-counting bank holding companies that are 
subsidiaries of other bank holding companies, we obtained lists of 
second-tier bank holding companies as of December 31, 2010, from the 
Federal Reserve's National Information Center website and used this 
list to drop any second-tier bank holding companies from our analysis. 
[Footnote 67] Our sample--our definition of the market--is thus the 
collection of top-tier bank holding companies with consolidated assets 
of $500 million or more that filed FR Y-9Cs with the Federal Reserve 
as of December 31, 2010. 

We obtained lists of all top-tier foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies--both exempt and nonexempt--operating in the United States 
as of December 31, 2010, from the Federal Reserve. We used these lists 
to classify bank holding companies in our sample as one of three 
types: exempt foreign-owned intermediate holding companies, nonexempt 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies, and U.S. bank holding 
companies. We calculated the percentage of various types of loans on 
the balance sheets of each group, including the following: 

* total domestic loans and leases, 

* residential construction loans, 

* nonresidential construction loans and all land development and other 
land loans, 

* agricultural real estate loans, 

* home equity lines of credit, 

* first-lien residential mortgage loans, 

* junior-lien residential mortgage loans, 

* multifamily residential property loans, 

* owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, 

* nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans, 

* agricultural production loans, 

* commercial and industrial loans, 

* consumer loans, and: 

* leases. 

We used amounts reported for domestic offices only so that our 
comparisons were consistent across foreign-owned intermediate holding 
companies and U.S. bank holding companies. A group's market share is 
the total dollar value of loans on the balance sheets of all bank 
holding companies in the group as a percentage of the total dollar 
value of loans on the balance sheets of all bank holding companies in 
the market. 

To assess the extent to which the price of credit and the quantity of 
credit available are likely to be affected because of the removal of 
the capital exemption, we used the used the HHI to measure market 
concentration. The HHI is a key statistical indicator used to assess 
the market concentration and the potential for firms to exercise 
market power. The HHI reflects the number of firms in the market and 
each firm's market share, and it is calculated by summing the squares 
of the market shares of each firm in the market. For example, a market 
consisting of four firms with market shares of 30 percent, 30 percent, 
20 percent, and 20 percent has an HHI of 2,600 (900 + 900 + 400 + 400 
= 2,600). The HHI ranges from 10,000 (if there is a single firm in the 
market) to a number approaching 0 (in the case of a perfectly 
competitive market). That is, higher values of the HHI indicate a more 
concentrated market. Department of Justice and Federal Trade 
Commission guidelines as of August 19, 2010, suggest that an HHI 
between 0 and 1,500 indicates that a market is not concentrated, an 
HHI between 1,500 and 2,500 indicates that a market is moderately 
concentrated, and an HHI greater than 2,500 indicates that a market is 
highly concentrated, although other factors also play a role in 
determining market concentration.[Footnote 68] 

We calculated the HHI for 2010 for each of the loan markets listed 
above. Each bank holding company is a separate firm in the market, and 
its market share is equal to the dollar value of loans on its balance 
sheet as a percentage of the total dollar value of loans on the 
balance sheets of all the bank holding companies in the market. 

We also calculated the HHI for 2010 for each loan market in 
alternative scenarios in which exempt holding companies cease making 
loans and transfer the loans on their balance sheets to bank holding 
companies that remain in the market. In the first scenario, exempt 
foreign-owned intermediate holding companies' loans are distributed 
proportionally among remaining bank holding companies. In the second 
scenario, exempt foreign-owned intermediate holding companies' loans 
are acquired by the largest remaining bank holding company in the 
market. 

A limitation of defining the market as the collection of top-tier bank 
holding companies that filed FR Y-9Cs with the Federal Reserve is that 
we exclude organizations that provide credit. For example, small bank 
holding companies--those with consolidated assets of less than $500 
million--generally are not required to file form FR Y-9C. However, 
they do make loans. Other credit market participants include savings 
and loan holding companies, stand alone banks, savings and loan 
associations, credit unions, and finance companies not owned by bank 
holding companies. Capital markets are another source of funds for 
some borrowers. As a result, our estimates of market shares are likely 
overstated. Furthermore, our estimates of market concentration may be 
either understated or overstated, depending on the number and market 
shares of other credit providers. 

Another limitation of our analysis is that we implicitly assume that 
all loan markets are national in scope; that is, that credit provided 
by a bank holding company is available to any potential borrower, 
regardless of his or her respective geographic location. If loan 
markets are not national in scope, then our market share and market 
concentration estimates are unlikely to represent those that we would 
estimate for a specific subnational region, such as a state or 
metropolitan area. The market share and market concentration estimates 
for some regions likely would be greater than our national estimates, 
while others likely would be lower. 

For this analysis, we relied on the Federal Reserve's FY-9C data that 
we obtained through SNL Financial and on information from the Federal 
Reserve on foreign banking organizations' top-tier intermediate 
holding companies in the United States. We conducted reliability 
assessment on these data by reviewing factors such as timeliness, 
accuracy, and completeness. We also conducted electronic testing to 
identify missing and out-of-range data. Where applicable, we contacted 
officials from the Federal Reserve to address questions about the 
reliability of the information. We found the data to be sufficiently 
reliable for our purposes. 

To estimate the effect of capital ratios on the cost and availability 
of credit, we estimated a modified version of a vector autoregression 
(VAR) model commonly used in the macroeconomics and monetary 
literature. Our model closely follows Berrospide and Edge (2010) and 
Lown and Morgan (2006). The VAR consists of eight variables. The core 
variables that represent the macroeconomy are (1) real gross domestic 
product (GDP) growth, (2) GDP price inflation, (3) federal funds rate, 
and (4) commodity price index growth. As is pointed out in Lown and 
Morgan (2006), these four variables potentially make up a complete 
economy, with output, price, demand, and supply all represented. We 
capture the banking sector with four variables: (1) loan volume 
growth, (2) changes in lending spreads--commercial and industrial loan 
rates relative to a benchmark, (3) lending standards as measured by 
the net fraction of loan officers at commercial banks reporting a 
tightening of credit standards for commercial and industrial loans in 
the Federal Reserve's Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey, and (4) the 
aggregate capital-to-assets ratio for the commercial bank sector. The 
addition of the latter four variables allows us to investigate the 
dynamic interaction between banks and the macroeconomy. The data were 
assembled from Thomson-Reuters Datastream and the Federal Reserve. We 
have relied on these data in our past reports and consider them to be 
reliable for our purposes here. 

Using the estimated VAR system for the third quarter of 1990 to the 
second quarter of 2010, we trace the dynamic responses of loan 
volumes, lending spreads, and other macroeconomic variables to shocks 
to the bank capital ratio. As a result, we can obtain quantitative 
estimates of how bank "innovations" or "shocks" affect the cost and 
availability of credit. Our base results rely on impulse response 
functions using the following causal ordering of the variables: GDP, 
inflation, federal funds rate, commodity spot prices, loan volumes, 
capital ratio, loan spreads, and lending standards. However, our final 
estimates use the average of the outcomes for the two different 
orderings of the variables: (1) where the macro variables are given 
causal priority and (2) where the bank variables are given causal 
priority. The VAR model, and the innovation accounting framework, is 
laid out in greater detail in another GAO report.[Footnote 69] 

The VAR methodology, while containing some advantages over other 
modeling techniques, has particular limitations, and therefore the 
results should be interpreted with caution. First, the methodology 
potentially overstates the quantitative effects of shocks on the 
economy and can be difficult to interpret. Second, because the 
technique relies on past data, it is subject to the criticism that 
past information may not be useful for gauging future response due to 
policy changes. Third, to conduct meaningful assessments of the 
impacts of shocks to the system, causal priority is given to some 
variables over others. However, our results are not particularly 
sensitive to this ordering, although we do obtain smaller impacts of 
bank capital on lending activity with some alternative orderings. To 
minimize this limitation, our estimates are an average of a model 
where causal priority is given to the macroeconomic variables and a 
model where causal priority is given to the bank variables. Last, in 
our particular case the impulse response functions have wide 
confidence intervals, suggesting considerable uncertainty in the 
results. Despite these limitations, the VAR approach is considered to 
be a reasonable alternative to other types of models. However, it is 
prudent to evaluate our results in the context of the wider body of 
research on the effects of bank capital on lending activity. 

The studies we relied on for comparison are useful in that they 
represent a variety of different modeling techniques ranging from VAR 
and cross-sectional regression methodologies to more sophisticated 
dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) modeling. None of these 
approaches are without limitations. For example DSGE models, although 
among the best for conducting counterfactual experiments and easy to 
interpret, are difficult to estimate and the techniques used to 
facilitate estimation can result in questionable results that are at 
odds with empirical observations. Nevertheless, by considering the 
body of evidence from different studies, we are able to provide some 
assessment of the reliability of our findings. However, the studies 
discussed in the report are included solely for research purposes and 
our reference to them does not imply we find them definitive. 

To describe U.S. banks operating abroad and their services, major 
customers, and competitors, we used information obtained from 
interviews with some of the largest internationally active U.S. banks. 
We also analyzed audited financial statements in the annual reports 
for relevant companies. We selected the six largest internationally 
active U.S. banks based on their level of foreign business activity. 
[Footnote 70] To identify banks' views on the potential risks from 
changes in capital requirements on U.S. banks operating abroad, we 
interviewed officials from the three U.S. bank holding companies that 
engaged in significant international operations. We also interviewed 
officials from the European Commission--a European Union entity that, 
among other things, through capital directives sets out general 
capital rules to be transferred into national law by each of the 27 
European Union countries as they deem appropriate. We summarized 
relevant academic literature and regulatory studies and congressional 
testimonies on the potential effects on U.S. banks' funding costs, 
product pricing, and lending activity abroad. We also obtained the 
views of federal banking officials from the Federal Reserve, FDIC, 
OCC, and OTS, and officials from the Department of the Treasury. 

We conducted this performance audit from December 2010 to January 2012 
in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe 
that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 

[End of section] 

Appendix II: Impact of Reducing the Risk-Weighted Assets of Exempt 
Holding Companies to Comply with New Requirements: 

Bank holding companies can take different approaches to comply with 
the new capital requirement in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act. From 2001 to 2010, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System granted capital requirement exemptions to 
six foreign-owned intermediate holding companies provided that the 
companies satisfied certain conditions, including having well-
capitalized foreign parent banks.[Footnote 71] As of the end of 2010, 
four foreign-owned intermediate holding companies continued to rely on 
a capital exemption from the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act 
eliminated this exemption, and these exempt holding companies must now 
meet new capital requirements. Some of these exempt holding companies 
may choose to raise capital, while others may choose to deleverage by 
decreasing the risk-weighted assets on their balance sheets (or a 
combination thereof).[Footnote 72] Although predicting the responses 
of the exempt holding companies to the higher U.S. bank capital 
requirements is a complex proposition, this appendix illustrates the 
potential effect on the availability of credit if the three exempt 
holding companies respond by reducing their balance sheets.[Footnote 
73] 

If the exempt holding companies chose to reduce their balance sheets 
to meet new capital regulations, we estimate that the decrease would 
be small relative to the aggregate assets for the U.S. banking sector. 
As table 6 illustrates, the three exempt holding companies would need 
to decrease their risk-weighted assets by amounts ranging from $12.2 
billion to as much as $15.3 billion to meet the minimum capital 
requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act.[Footnote 74] While the scale of 
this deleveraging is large at the individual holding company level, it 
is small as a percentage of the total risk-weighted assets of the U.S. 
banking sector (see table 6). For example, although the exempt holding 
companies would have to reduce their balance sheets by 20 percent on 
average, the total decline in assets amounts to 0.44 percent of the 
$9.1 trillion in total risk-weighted assets for the aggregate U.S. 
banking sector. To meet the equivalent of the well-capitalized 
standards that apply to banks and thrifts, the exempt holding 
companies would need to reduce their risk-weighted assets by $65.8 
billion, or roughly 0.7 percent of the total risk-weighted assets for 
the aggregate U.S. banking sector. This would require two of the 
exempt holding companies to decrease risk-weighted assets by roughly 
38 percent and 34 percent, respectively. 

Table 6: Decrease in Risk-Weighted Assets Necessary to Meet Certain 
Capital Levels: 

Company 1; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet minimum capital requirements 
under the Dodd-Frank Act: $12,313,113,000; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.13%; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet well capitalized level: 
$26,516,093,000; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.29%. 

Company 2; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet minimum capital requirements 
under the Dodd-Frank Act: $15,316,751,000; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.17%; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet well capitalized level: 
$23,175,154,000; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.25%. 

Company 3; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet minimum capital requirements 
under the Dodd-Frank Act: $12,176,820,000; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.13%; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet well capitalized level: 
$16,143,270,000; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.18%. 

Total decline; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet minimum capital requirements 
under the Dodd-Frank Act: $39,806,684,500; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.44%; 
Decline in risk-weighted assets to meet well capitalized level: 
$65,834,517,000; 
Percentage of total U.S. banking sector assets: 0.72%. 

Total risk-weighted assets for banking sector: $9,141,452,000,000. 

Sources: GAO analysis of Federal Reserve and SNL Financial data. 

Note: The foreign parent of company 4 is considering plans to 
restructure its operations to eliminate the need to raise capital. 

[End of table] 

While the reduction in assets could entail the canceling of lines of 
credit and reduced lending by these institutions, our market share 
analysis detailed above suggests that other banks would service 
affected creditworthy borrowers at competitive rates. This shrinkage 
in risk-weighted assets still could have implications for less-
creditworthy borrowers, especially if a reduction in assets included 
lines of credit to customers who benefited from lower rates than they 
otherwise could receive at other institutions. However, rather than 
simply reducing the overall size of their portfolios, exempt holding 
companies also could shift the composition of their portfolios toward 
less-risky assets. For example, if the exempt holding companies were 
to sell assets with a 100 percent risk weighting and purchase an 
equivalent amount of assets with a 50 percent risk weighting, one 
would exceed the minimum capital requirements while the others would 
need to reduce their assets by an additional $1.2 billion and $1.8 
billion. An adjustment of this type would imply a shift from 
commercial loans and commercial mortgages, which appear to be a 
significant portion of book of business for the three holding 
companies under consideration. 

[End of section] 

Appendix III: GAO Contact and Staff Acknowledgments: 

GAO Contact: 

Thomas J. McCool, (202) 512-2642 or mccoolt@gao.gov: 

Staff Acknowledgments: 

In addition to the contact listed above, Daniel Garcia-Diaz (Acting 
Director), Rachel DeMarcus, M'Baye Diagne, Lawrance Evans Jr., Colin 
Gray, Joe Hunter, Elizabeth Jimenez, Courtney LaFountain, Akiko 
Ohnuma, Marc Molino, Timothy Mooney, Patricia Moye, Michael Pahr, and 
Barbara Roesmann made key contributions to this report. 

[End of section] 

Footnotes: 

[1] Capital is a source of long-term funding, contributed largely by 
an institution's equity stockholders and its own returns in the form 
of retained earnings, that provides institutions with a cushion to 
absorb unexpected losses. 

[2] Pub. L. No 111-203, § 171, 124 Stat. 1376, 1435 (2010). This 
section is also known as the Collins Amendment. A bank or thrift 
holding company owns or controls one or more banks or thrifts or owns 
or controls one or more bank or thrift holding companies. The company 
at the top of the ownership chain is commonly called the top-tier 
entity. 

[3] Foreign banks may have their U.S. subsidiaries owned or controlled 
by an intermediate holding company in the United States (the 
organization between the subsidiary bank and the foreign parent bank) 
primarily to take advantage of tax or regulatory benefits. 

[4] Data as of September 30, 2011 according to the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). 

[5] The HHI is one of the concentration measures federal agencies, 
including the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Trade 
Commission (FTC), use when assessing market concentration to enforce 
U.S. antitrust laws. 

[6] The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision 
(OTS), which chartered federal savings and loan associations (thrifts) 
and savings and loan holding companies (thrift holding companies), and 
supervised federally and state-chartered thrifts and thrift holding 
companies. 12 U.S.C § 5413. Rulemaking authority previously vested in 
OTS was transferred to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC) for federally chartered thrifts and to the Federal Reserve for 
thrift holding companies and their subsidiaries, other than depository 
institutions. 12 U.S.C. § 5412(b). Supervision of state-chartered 
thrifts was transferred to the FDIC. 12 U.S.C. § 5412(b)(2)(C). The 
transfer of these powers was completed on July 21, 2011, and OTS was 
officially abolished 90 days later (October 19, 2011). 12 U.S.C. §§ 
5411, 5413. OTS supervised one foreign-owned intermediate thrift 
holding company, ING Direct Bancorp, which agreed in June 2011 to sell 
its U.S. banking operations (ING Direct USA) to Capital One Financial 
Corporation. This report does not discuss OTS's past oversight of 
thrift holding companies. The Federal Reserve noted that, to the 
extent possible, it will apply bank holding company supervision, 
capital requirements, and regulatory reporting requirements to thrift 
holding companies. 

[7] Tier 1, or core, capital consists primarily of common equity. Tier 
2 is supplementary capital and includes limited amounts of 
subordinated debt, loan loss reserves, and certain other instruments. 

[8] The framework is outlined in the July 1988 International 
Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards. Established 
in 1974, the Basel Committee seeks to improve the quality of banking 
supervision worldwide in part by developing broad supervisory 
standards. Its members represent central bank and regulatory officials 
from Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, 
Germany, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg, 
Mexico, the Netherlands, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South 
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and 
the United States. The Basel Committee's supervisory standards are 
also often adopted by nonmember countries. 

[9] Credit risk is the potential for loss resulting from the failure 
of a borrower or counterparty to perform on an obligation. 

[10] Market risk is the potential for loss resulting from movements in 
market prices, including interest rates, commodity prices, stock 
prices, and foreign exchange rates. Generally, under the market risk 
amendment, a bank's internal models are used to estimate the 99th 
percentile of the bank's market risk loss distribution over a 10-
business-day horizon (in other words, a solvency standard designed to 
exceed trading losses for 99 of 100 10-business-day intervals). 

[11] In June 2004, the Basel Committee published Basel II: 
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital 
Standards: A Revised Framework. 

[12] The advanced approaches generally apply to large internationally 
active banks. According to the U.S. Basel II advanced approaches rule, 
such banks are defined as those with consolidated total assets of $250 
billion or more or with consolidated total on-balance-sheet foreign 
exposure of $10 billion or more. 

[13] Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, the four phases for the advanced 
approaches qualification were (1) the parallel run--four consecutive 
quarters in which a bank meets the qualification requirements and is 
subject to the Basel I rules but simultaneously calculates its risk-
based capital ratios under the advanced approaches; (2) the first 
transitional period--a period of at least four consecutive quarters in 
which the bank computes its risk-based capital ratios using the Basel 
I rule and the advanced approaches rule, and required risk-based 
capital must be at least 95 percent of the Basel I requirement; (3) 
the second transitional period--a period of at least four consecutive 
quarters in which the bank computes its risk-based capital ratios 
using the Basel I rule and the advanced approaches rule, and required 
risk-based capital must be at least 90 percent of the Basel I 
requirement; and (4) the third transitional period--a period of at 
least four consecutive quarters in which the bank computes its risk-
based capital ratios using the Basel I rule and the advanced 
approaches rule, and required risk-based capital must be at least 85 
percent of the Basel I requirement. The Dodd-Frank Act had the effect 
of eliminating the transitional periods as they would apply in the 
United States and established a permanent capital floor. 

[14] Revisions to the Basel II market risk framework, July 2009 
(updated December 31, 2010, February 2011), and Guidelines for 
computing capital for incremental risk in the trading book, July 2009. 

[15] Basel III: A Global Regulatory Framework for More Resilient Bank 
and Banking Systems, December 2010. 

[16] Pub. L. No. 95-369, 92 Stat. 607 (1978). 

[17] For example, foreign and U.S. banking institutions can engage in 
interstate branch banking and nonbanking activities such as securities 
underwriting and both are subject to reserve requirements, federal 
supervision, and capital adequacy standards. 

[18] As previously noted in the report, a few foreign branches were 
exempted (grandfathered). Retail deposits are deposits of $250,000 or 
less. 

[19] Pub. L. No. 102-242 tit. II subtit. A, 105 Stat. 2236, 2286 
(1991). 

[20] The Federal Reserve has regulatory authority for overseeing U.S. 
and foreign banks' international banking activities, which it 
administers through Regulation K. 12 C.F.R. § 211.20(a). It conducts 
supervisory activities through the 12 Federal Reserve Banks across the 
United States. 

[21] U.S.-owned banks with foreign operations are generally regulated 
and supervised in the same manner. This meets elements of consolidated 
bank supervision and home-host supervisor relationship under the Basel 
Committee's "Core Principles Methodology." 

[22] 12 U.S.C. § 3105(d)(2)(A); see also item 15 of Attachment A to 
Federal Reserve Form FR K-2. International Applications and Prior 
Notifications under Subpart B of Regulation K. 

[23] The Federal Reserve also must consider whether the home country 
supervisor has adopted and implemented procedures, or is developing a 
legal regime or participating in multilateral effort to combat money 
laundering. 

[24] Pub. L. No. 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338 (1999). The Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act allows those bank holding companies that meet certain 
capital, managerial, and other requirements to engage in securities 
underwriting, merchant banking, and insurance underwriting. As of 
September 30, 2011, 420 domestic bank holding companies and 40 foreign 
banking organizations had financial holding company status. 

[25] Federal Reserve, Application of the Board's Capital Adequacy 
Guidelines to Bank Holding Companies Owned by Foreign Banking 
Organizations (Washington, D.C.: Jan. 5, 2001). 

[26] The foreign parent bank must be well capitalized according to the 
capital standards in effect in the United States for bank holding 
companies. Currently, to be well capitalized, a bank holding company 
must meet a tier 1 risked-based capital ratio of 6 percent or greater, 
a total risked-based capital of 10 percent or greater, and certain 
other standards. See 12 CFR § 225.2(r). A bank holding company is 
considered well managed if the composite rating for its U.S. combined 
operations is at least satisfactory, and it has at least a 
satisfactory rating for management if such a rating is given. See 12 
CFR § 22.5.2(s). 

[27] If the foreign parent bank owns a U.S. depository bank 
subsidiary, the bank subsidiary must maintain a total risk-based 
capital ratio of at least 10 percent, a tier 1 risk-based capital 
ratio of at least 6 percent, and leverage ratio of at least 5 percent. 

[28] See Federal Deposit Insurance Act, § 38, 64 Stat. 873 (1950) 
(codified, as amended, at 12 U.S.C. § 1831o). 

[29] This is considered a form of ring fencing, which refers to the 
practice by which local authorities set aside or shield assets of a 
local subsidiary from the failed institution and insist that local 
creditors get paid first, before any funds are transferred to satisfy 
claims made against the failed parent. 

[30] Section 616(d) of the Dodd Frank Act confirmed the Federal 
Reserve's authority to require a bank or thrift holding company to 
serve as a source of strength to any subsidiary depository institution. 

[31] Capital requirements affecting hybrid instruments issued after 
the cutoff date of May 19, 2010, would be immediately applicable. 

[32] Sections 171(b)(1) and (2) of the Dodd-Frank Act specify that the 
minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements established under 
that section shall not be less than the "generally applicable'' 
capital requirements, which shall serve as a floor for any capital 
requirements the agencies may require. Moreover, sections 171(b)(1) 
and (2) specify that the federal banking agencies may not establish 
leverage or risk-based capital requirements for covered institutions 
that are quantitatively lower than the generally applicable leverage 
or risk-based capital requirements in effect for insured depository 
institutions as of the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. 12 
U.S.C. § 5371(b)(1)-(2). 

[33] Risk-Based Capital Standards: Advanced Capital Adequacy 
Framework--Basel II; Establishment of a Risk-Based Capital Floor, 76 
Fed. Reg. 37, 620 (June 28, 2011). 

[34] Previously, the Federal Reserve allowed bank holding companies to 
use hybrid capital instruments, such as trust-preferred securities and 
cumulative-preferred securities, to compose up to 25 percent of their 
tier 1 capital amount. Internationally active banks were limited to a 
15 percent of tier 1 capital threshold for hybrid instruments. For a 
greater discussion of hybrid capital instruments and the potential 
effects of the restriction on institutions' operations, see GAO, Dodd-
Frank Act: Hybrid Capital Instruments and Small Institution Access to 
Capital, [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-237] 
(Washington, D.C.: Jan. 18, 2012). 

[35] The Financial Stability Oversight Council (established under the 
Dodd-Frank Act) can designate a nonbank financial company as a 
systemically important financial institution (SIFI). Such an entity 
would be supervised by the Federal Reserve and would be required to 
comply with enhanced supervision and prudential standards consistent 
with the Dodd-Frank Act. 12 U.S.C. § 5325. 

[36] On November 4, 2011, the Financial Stability Board, which is 
responsible for coordinating and promoting the implementation of 
international financial standards (such as the Basel III accord), 
designated 29 financial institutions as global SIFIs. See 
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/about/mandate.htm. 

[37] We interviewed officials from three of the banks that did not 
rely on the exemption and they all said that they did not expect to 
take any immediate action, including raising additional capital, 
because their holding companies already met the new capital 
requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act. 

[38] Examples of nonbank activities are financial management, mortgage 
and investment banking, insurance, and broker-dealer activities. 

[39] Our analysis generally covers bank holding companies with total 
consolidated assets of $500 million or more. Including smaller bank 
holding companies in the analysis would reduce the fraction of loans 
on the balance sheets of exempt holding companies. 

[40] The HHI is one of the market concentration measures that 
government agencies, including the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the 
Federal Trade Commission (FTC), use when assessing concentration to 
enforce U.S. antitrust laws. DOJ and FTC often calculate the HHI as 
the first step in providing insight into potentially anticompetitive 
conditions in an industry. However, the HHI is a function of firms' 
market shares, and market shares may not fully reflect the competitive 
significance of firms in the market. Thus, DOJ and FTC use the HHI in 
combination with other evidence of competitive effects when evaluating 
market concentration. The HHI reflects the number of firms in the 
market and each firm's market share, and it is calculated by summing 
the squares of the market shares of each firm in the market. For 
example, a market consisting of four firms with market shares of 30 
percent, 30 percent, 20 percent, and 20 percent has an HHI of 2,600 
(900 + 900 + 400 + 400 = 2,600). The HHI ranges from 10,000 (if there 
is a single firm in the market) to a number approaching 0 (in the case 
of a perfectly competitive market). DOJ and FTC guidelines as of 
August 19, 2010, suggest that an HHI between 0 and 1,500 indicates 
that a market is not concentrated, an HHI between 1,500 and 2,500 
indicates that a market is moderately concentrated, and an HHI greater 
than 2,500 indicates that a market is highly concentrated, although 
other factors also play a role in determining market concentration. 

[41] For this analysis, we defined the market as the collection of 
bank holding companies for which we could obtain balance sheet data 
from the Federal Reserve's Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank 
Holding Companies (FR Y-9C) through SNL Financial. This definition 
excludes other types of institutions that make loans, including bank 
holding companies with less than $500 million in assets (which are not 
required to file form FR Y-9C), savings and loans and finance 
companies that are not subsidiaries of a bank holding company. Credit 
unions are another source of loans, and capital markets are yet 
another source of funds for certain entities. Thus, the HHIs we 
calculate may either understate or overstate the amount of 
concentration in loan markets, depending on the number and market 
shares of other credit providers. 

[42] Supplementary capital is tier 2 capital. 

[43] For the remainder of this section, we assume, based on 
information available to us and the degree of undercapitalization, 
that the fourth exempt holding company would restructure its 
operations. 

[44] See appendix II for further discussion of the effects of reducing 
assets on the availability of credit. 

[45] Specifically, we employ the vector autoregression (VAR) 
methodology. See C. Lown and D. Morgan. "The Credit Cycle and the 
Business Cycle: New Findings Using the Loan Officer Opinion Survey," 
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking 38, 6 (2006): 1575-97; and J. 
Berrospide and R. Edge (2010) 'The Effects of Bank Capital on Lending: 
What Do We Know, and What Does It Mean?'', International Journal of 
Central Banking, vol. 6 (December), 5-54. Our model is a version of 
the VAR models found in the macroeconomic and monetary literature 
extended to include a banking sector. It comprises four variables that 
capture supply, demand, output, and prices that make up the 
"macroeconomy." We then extend the model to include the credit market 
using various proxies for loan volumes, bank capital, loan spreads, 
and information on lending standards. See appendix I for a fuller 
discussion of the methodology, assumptions, and model. 

[46] In our model, values reflect peak estimates reached from three to 
five quarters out, diminish after about 2 years, and assume no 
transition period. 

[47] We also elected to use commercial loans as the appropriate proxy 
for loan volumes in our model. The literature has found these loans to 
be more sensitive to capital. Using total loans for commercial banks 
and savings institutions produced effects that were less than half as 
large. 

[48] Lending spreads measure loan rates relative to the banks' costs 
of funds. In our model, the lending spread is the difference between 
the commercial and industrial loan and federal funds rates. 

[49] The higher loan rate may not be a social cost because it may 
reduce excessive lending. For example, see A. R. Admati, P. M. 
DeMarzo, M. F. Hellwig, and P. Pfleiderer, "Fallacies, Irrelevant 
Facts, and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why Bank 
Equity is Not Expensive," working paper, Stanford University Graduate 
School of Business (2010). 

[50] See for example Allen Berger, and Christa Bouwman, "Bank Capital, 
Survival, and Performance around Financial Crises," Wharton Financial 
Institutions Center Working Paper 09-24 (2009). 

[51] Each study allowed us to determine the impact of a 1 percentage 
point change in capital on loan volumes and lending rates. For 
example, in our model, a 1 percentage point change in capital 
translates to a change in loan volumes of about 2.41 percentage 
points. We then scale the estimates by the size of the expected 
capital deficit as a result of the elimination of the capital 
exemption. 

[52] In 2010, Bank of America, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
reported revenues from foreign operations derived from Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa, Asia/Pacific, and Latin America. In addition, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corporation report 
foreign revenues that do not fit in any of the other segments in a 
category called "Other" (other non-U.S. revenues). The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc., and Morgan Stanley did not report revenues from Latin 
America, as their non-U.S. business activities are principally 
conducted through European and Asian locations. 

[53] The commission puts common European Union policies into practice, 
manages the European Union budget and programs, and can propose 
legislation to the European parliament. 

[54] The Group of Twenty (or G-20) was established in 1999. Members 
originally consisted of representatives of 19 major economies and the 
European Union. The G-20 holds annual meetings at which finance 
ministers and central bank governors discuss measures to promote 
global financial stability and economic growth and development. 

[55] CRD3 implements the Basel Committee's July 2009 updates to the 
market risk framework, informally known as Basel II.5. The updates 
reflect strengthened standards for measuring market risk and holding 
capital against those risks, and improve transparency, especially for 
securitization activities. The United States is planning to implement 
Basel II.5 in 2012. 

[56] In the event that problems arise with a bank in breach of the 
prudential requirements, a harmonized set of early intervention 
measures (such as clear powers to prohibit payment of dividends, 
impose additional reporting requirements, require the replacement of 
managers or directors, or require the cessation of certain risky 
activities) would be made available to supervisors. 

[57] FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair, testimony before the Committee on 
Financial Services of the U.S. House of Representatives, June 16, 2011. 

[58] The Basel Committee has expressed concern that the financial 
regulatory framework did not provide adequate incentives for firms to 
mitigate their procyclical use of leverage (debt). That is, firms 
tended to increase leverage in strong markets and decrease it when 
market conditions deteriorated, amplifying business cycle fluctuations 
and exacerbating financial instability. According to regulators, many 
financial institutions did not increase regulatory capital and other 
loss-absorbing buffers during the market upswing, when it would have 
been easier and less costly to do so. The Basel III countercyclical 
buffers are intended to help address concerns about procyclicality. 

[59] See [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-237]. 

[60] Acting Comptroller of the Currency John Walsh, testimony before 
the Committee on Financial Services of the U.S. House of 
Representatives, June 16, 2011. 

[61] Hal S. Scott, Director of the Committee on Capital Markets 
Regulation; Professor and Director of the Program on International 
Financial Systems, Harvard Law School, testimony before the Committee 
on Financial Services of the U.S. House of Representatives, June 16, 
2011. 

[62] A foreign banking organization is defined as a company organized 
under the laws of a foreign country that engages in the business of 
banking. 

[63] A bank or thrift holding company owns or controls one or more 
banks or thrifts, respectively, or one that owns or controls one or 
more bank or thrift holding company or owns or controls one or more 
bank or thrift companies. The company at the top of the ownership 
chain is commonly called the top-tier entity. 

[64] The FR Y-9C is a Federal Reserve reporting form that collects 
basic financial data from a domestic bank holding company on a 
consolidated basis in the form of a balance sheet, an income 
statement, and detailed supporting schedules, including a schedule of 
off balance-sheet items. The information is used to assess and monitor 
the financial condition of bank holding company organizations, which 
may include parent, bank, and nonbank entities. The FR Y-9C is a 
primary analytical tool used to monitor financial institutions between 
on-site inspections and is filed quarterly as of the last calendar 
days of March, June, September, and December. 

[65] The Federal Reserve's Supervision and Regulation Letter 01-1 of 
January 5, 2001, permitted a foreign-owned intermediate holding 
company whose foreign parent bank qualified to become a financial 
holding company to be exempt from complying with capital adequacy 
standards. For the final rule on capital floors, see 76 Fed. Reg. 
37.620 (June 28, 2011). According to the U.S. Basel II advanced 
approaches rule, internationally active banks are defined as those 
with at least $250 billion of consolidated total assets or at least 
$10 billion of consolidated total on-balance-sheet foreign exposure. 

[66] The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the OTS, which chartered federal 
savings and loan associations (thrifts) and savings and loan holding 
companies (thrift holding companies), and supervised federally and 
state-chartered thrifts and thrift holding companies. 12 U.S.C § 5413. 
Rulemaking authority previously vested in OTS was transferred to OCC 
for federally chartered thrifts and to the Federal Reserve for thrift 
holding companies and their subsidiaries, other than depository 
institutions. 12 U.S.C. § 5412(b). Supervision of state-chartered 
thrifts was transferred to FDIC. 12 U.S.C. § 5412(b)(2)(C). The 
transfer of these powers was completed on July 21, 2011, and OTS was 
officially abolished 90 days later (October 19, 2011). 12 U.S.C. §§ 
5411, 5413. 

[67] The National Information Center is a central repository of data 
about banks and other institutions for which the Federal Reserve has a 
supervisory, regulatory, or research interest, including both domestic 
and foreign banking organizations operating in the United States 

[68] The HHI is one of the market concentration measures that 
government agencies, including the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the 
Federal Trade Commission (FTC), use when assessing concentration to 
enforce U.S. antitrust laws. DOJ and FTC often calculate the HHI as 
the first step in providing insight into potentially anticompetitive 
conditions in an industry. However, the HHI is a function of firms' 
market shares, and market shares may not fully reflect the competitive 
significance of firms in the market. Thus, DOJ and FTC use the HHI 
with other evidence of competitive effects when evaluating market 
concentration. 

[69] See [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-237]. 

[70] The bank holding companies are: Bank of America Corporation, The 
Bank of New Mellon Corporation, Citigroup Inc., The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Morgan Stanley. 

[71] Supervision and Regulation Letter 01-1 (January 5, 2001). 

[72] Risk-weighted assets are the total assets and off-balance-sheet 
items held by an institution that are weighted for risks according to 
the federal banking agencies' regulatory capital standards. 

[73] We excluded one exempt holding company from this analysis because 
of various factors. For example, the exempt holding company likely 
will restructure its U.S. operations. Officials from the bank did not 
respond to our request for a meeting to discuss potential actions. 

[74] To meet the minimum capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank 
Act, a bank holding company would be required to maintain at a minimum 
a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4 percent, a total risk-based 
capital ratio of 8 percent, and a leverage capital ratio of 4 percent, 
except that of a bank holding company that holds the highest 
supervisory rating is subject to a 3 percent minimum leverage ratio. 
The total risk-based capital ratio equals the sum of tier 1 and tier 2 
capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital includes 
limited amounts of subordinated debt, loan loss reserves, and certain 
other instruments. The tier 1 leverage capital ratio is tier 1 capital 
divided by average total assets. 

[End of section] 

GAO’s Mission: 

The Government Accountability Office, the audit, evaluation, and 
investigative arm of Congress, exists to support Congress in meeting 
its constitutional responsibilities and to help improve the 
performance and accountability of the federal government for the 
American people. GAO examines the use of public funds; evaluates 
federal programs and policies; and provides analyses, recommendations, 
and other assistance to help Congress make informed oversight, policy, 
and funding decisions. GAO’s commitment to good government is 
reflected in its core values of accountability, integrity, and 
reliability. 

Obtaining Copies of GAO Reports and Testimony: 

The fastest and easiest way to obtain copies of GAO documents at no 
cost is through GAO’s website [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov]. Each 
weekday afternoon, GAO posts on its website newly released reports, 
testimony, and correspondence. To have GAO e mail you a list of newly 
posted products, go to [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov] and select “E-
mail Updates.” 

Order by Phone: 

The price of each GAO publication reflects GAO’s actual cost of 
production and distribution and depends on the number of pages in the 
publication and whether the publication is printed in color or black 
and white. Pricing and ordering information is posted on GAO’s 
website, [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov/ordering.htm]. 

Place orders by calling (202) 512-6000, toll free (866) 801-7077, or 
TDD (202) 512-2537. 

Orders may be paid for using American Express, Discover Card, 
MasterCard, Visa, check, or money order. Call for additional 
information. 

Connect with GAO: 

Connect with GAO on facebook, flickr, twitter, and YouTube.
Subscribe to our RSS Feeds or E mail Updates. Listen to our Podcasts.
Visit GAO on the web at [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov]. 

To Report Fraud, Waste, and Abuse in Federal Programs: 

Contact: 
Website: [hyperlink, http://www.gao.gov/fraudnet/fraudnet.htm]; 
E-mail: fraudnet@gao.gov; 
Automated answering system: (800) 424-5454 or (202) 512-7470. 

Congressional Relations: 

Ralph Dawn, Managing Director, dawnr@gao.gov, (202) 512-4400
U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 7125
Washington, DC 20548. 

Public Affairs: 
Chuck Young, Managing Director, youngc1@gao.gov, (202) 512-4800
U.S. Government Accountability Office, 441 G Street NW, Room 7149 
Washington, DC 20548. 