> Mr. Bass: Good morning.

> Judge Evans: Morning. All right. So, we are now in session. I get the right file up in the matter of DPW Enterprises LLC and Mountain Prime 2018 LLC versus Jeremy Bass and Dwayne Pike. This is case number CV35-24-1063. This matter is set for a few different issues. was originally, I think, set for a status conference pertaining to plaintiff um versus Mr. Pike and then there was a motion filed by the plaintiff for attorney's fees regarding Mr. Bass. Mr. Bass in turn filed two motions, one a motion to stay and the second a motion to wave the supervous bond. Um all of these those three motions are scheduled for hearing this morning. So, uh let's take a one. Uh let's take first take up the motion for attorney's fees. Uh Mr. Stoddard.

> Mr. Stoddard: Uh thank you, your honor. As the court's aware, um this case centered around an action for possession of real property following a non-judicial foreclosure sale. Uh Mr. Bass Bass has appeared and contested that uh resulting in my client having to file for summary judgement and to respond to a number of additional motions. Uh in total, as of the date, uh of seeking entry of judgment against Mr. Bass following the court's granting of summary judgement against him. Uh my client has incurred close to $10,000 uh in attorney's fees in dealing with his various pleadings. Um because we are the prevailing party, uh I believe that it's appropriate for an award of those attorneys fees. Additionally, I I want to bring to light and I think this uh will become not only a a argument in uh opposition to the motion to stay and waiver of a superseded bond. But Mrs. Bass's most recent pleadings uh contradict um the proceedings up until now. Specifically, Mr. Bass and his most recent uh affidavit um uh as well as a supporting affidavit he just recently filed by the court indicate he's not even living in the property. Uh according to the affidavit of Melissa Gun, he is residing at a different piece of property. Uh, which is contrary to his answer in this matter where he swore under oath that he was occupying the property. Um, if Mr. Bass isn't in the property, uh, we aren't here. My client wouldn't have had to incur uh the attorney's fees and cost for seeking to eject him because he doesn't need to be ejected. Um, so what we have, your honor, is um over $10,000 of attorney fees that have been racked up all while under the guise of Mr. Bass's representation to this court that he is occupying the property. He is a resident of the property and now in order to request to stay and or waiver of a superseded bond he has changed that position to say that the in writing that the property is uninhabitable and turns out he according to the affidavit of Mrs. Gunch uh has been residing in a different property since February of 2024 before this suit was ever in initiated. Um so with those uh your honor, I believe that an award of attorney sees uh is appropriate u both as prevailing party uh and I think um under 12120 uh where defense of the matter has been pursued frivolously. Um the law with respect to the impact of a trustees deed in favor of a good faith purchaser for value says that it is conclusive. Uh again my clients racked up 10 000 in attorney's fees all under the guise that Mr. Bass is occupying or residing in the property which his recent filings indicate has been is false and has been false for the entirety of this uh underlying lawsuit. So uh at this point we would request that the court um amend the judgment to award my client its attorney fees and costs in pursuing uh the claims against Mr. Bass. Thank you.

> Judge Evans: Thank you. Um before we proceed further, Mr. Ngi, I just noticed that Mr. Pike's audio is not connected. Did you want to So he hasn't been able to uh listen or partake so far in this hearing.

> Mr. Naggy: I'm sorry, your honor. I'm at a different location than he is.

> Judge Evans: Okay. I don't know how best to resolve that issue then.

> Mr. Naggy: Well, um I can call my office and see if they can work work on it. So, I'll mute myself and and get them working on it, your honor. I appreciate you pointing that out.

> Judge Evans: All right. Thank you. Then, uh continuing on with the motion for attorney's fees, uh Mr. Bass.

> Mr. Bass: Uh yes, thank you, your honor. Um the attorney fees, any request for that uh would seem to be m uh would be uh early. uh to to be done. Um as far as my residence of the property, my property, my stuff is at the property. Just because I can't take a shower there and lay my head there doesn't mean that I don't have property there and that it's not this isn't my property where I would normally live at. Um the point that was made uh before which I had said uh in the last hearing was that I had no water or anything uh to be able to stay and lay there. But that doesn't mean that my property is not there. So, I haven't been disingenuous at all about the fact that this is this is where my home is and this is where my property. I'm just having to pay rent since it was uh said that I wasn't paying rent or anything of that nature that I was basically living scot-free off uh their dime. Uh it I figured it was important to go ahead and and show that yes, I was actually paying rent. or someplace I could take my shower and uh lay my head and store some of my stuff to protect my property. Um so I haven't been disingenuous at all in that nature. Uh in fact uh the plaintiffs uh and the law firm uh they have actually in in multiple uh cases that are through the courts that are active right now um all their trustee deeds uh which I can list off uh the courts the names of them or the docket numbers and u which filings they would be uh but there's a handful of them where they're the law firm is acting as the trustees and the plaintiff is the buyers and uh they have conflict of interest there and the thing is is that in Utah that would be a that's a problem for those cases there But it shows that they're not being genuine in their own right. Uh or being on the up and up. I'm coming from a place of I'm trying to protect my home, the place I've had for the last 20 years. Uh so I would hardly say that it's frivolous to try to protect that. I didn't go into default because I didn't make my payments. I went into default in a forbearance that was to try to figure out what was problem, what was the wrong with the papers. So, it I I didn't want to be here and even when I tried to solve it, uh I put good faith effort into to doing that and it's not gone great for me, but I hardly say that it's it's uh not within my rights uh to protect my property. Um, and I've done so uh with good faith at every step of the way. way. Uh but I haven't necessarily uh done the best job that I could. But uh the mischaracterizations of me renting lent sorry me living rent free uh that I'm not that they're uh they're taking harm and I'm uh uh profiting off of it uh is just not the case. And because we're There's still things that are are uh moving forward. Any kind of of award of of attorney fees would be premature um is what I would put out there.

> Judge Evans: Right. Thank you.

> Judge Evans: To the issue of attorney's fees, I will take the matter under adisement and I'll issue a a decision in due course. Let's move on then to Mr. Yes. 

> Mr. Naggy: Can I have some input on the attorney fee issue because it does affect my client slightly.

> Judge Evans: All right. 

> Mr. Naggy: I I I apologize, your honor. Um uh I just wanted to respond to Mr. Stoddard's interesting argument that uh Mr. uh Bass is not occupying the property. In fact, Mr. Bass's tenant, my client, is occupying the property. He resides there. And uh so I think that does have m I would argue that Mr. Bass has not made a material misstatement of fact. Um and as Mr. Bass has stated, his possessions are at the property and um uh however uh also Mr. uh Stoddard has argued that his client is a prevailing party and I know your honor you have entered your order um essentially declaring uh that Mr. uh Stoddard's client is has prevailed in this proceeding against Mr. Bass. Uh however, Mr. Bass has appealed it and he's asking for the stay. Therefore, I would question whether in fact at this stage in the proceeding, Mr. Stoddard's client is in fact the prevailing party while that appeal is pending. Thank you, your honor.

> Judge Evans: All right. Thank you. Again, I will take the issue of attorney fees as requested by plaintiff against Mr. Bass under adisement and I'll issue a decision and due course. Let's move on to Mr. Bass's motion uh to stay and it the corresponding motion to wave superius bond. So, Mr. Bass, I'd be glad to hear from you.

> Mr. Bass: Uh yeah. Um the motion to stay uh is to protect the status quo of where we're at. Um the least amount of harm to uh anyone uh all parties involved is to continue to to stay as it is. Um any loss of property on my side would be uh irreparable. Uh there'd be no way for me to to make that whole again. Uh unlike their side where they do have a way to make themselves monetarily uh whole again. Uh so if I prevail then they uh have a monetary means to go back and become whole. If I lose And I have no way to to make myself whole. I have no one to go after. But I uh the least amount of disruption to the current situation is to uh wait until everything has played its course. Um I'm doing what I'm uh believe I'm supposed to as far as protecting my my rights for my property. And in that process, uh I uh am exercising all rights to uh justice that I can get. Um and so I do believe that it's uh it's for the best interest of public interest to you know believe in the system uh as well as least amount of harm for us for all of us involved. Um and the fact that there's really no uh no immediate harm uh or immediate gain by uh shifting to another position from here. Uh that would be for uh what I would say for the stay itself. Um uh would uh should I go over the bond, your honor?

> Judge Evans: Yes, please.

> Mr. Bass: Okay. Uh sorry. Um as far as the bond goes, uh as everything I understand about the bond is to protect uh the prevailing party uh from uh costs and damage since they if they were to go ahead and win. If I was to fail at the uh the appeal process, then uh they would still get the property. They would not be out anything there. They would just have their uh lawyer fees if they were to win that. Um and with that said, I've put out uh to maintain uh Mr. Pike's rights uh and keep him uh protected uh for his lease and everything uh paying the the bills and at my own cost. I'm not making a profit as it has been uh presented before and I'm actually doing it at a loss. Uh but making sure that I take care of the property rights and everything. Um I've only improved it since uh we started since Feb. February. Uh even though I haven't uh tried to to rectify the water thing cuz that too much uh putting in would just exacerbate the problem um if there was uh a loss. But um I have to incur you know uh the rent that I have to somewhere to sleep and everything. I have all to protect all my property. These are these are are the losses that I would see if if I was to win and uh that's not getting covered. I I would basically ask if it's assumed that I was uh genuine that this there was a problem and I'm and I'm getting u a fraud that's put against me and and I'm just not doing it right to protect myself. I have all that equity of all those years in there. That equity should mean something. And I know that they're saying They've got their 150 that they put down to purchase the place, but I have my uhund and uh plus there too. And I I would argue that their money is no more valuable than my uh investment in and this is my my home, my uh where my retirement is put in. Uh what I can give to my kids uh you know everything I've put into here is this is my place. So the losses are greater on my side. If any kind of bond was uh to be put there, it would be uh almost punitive in nature because it's it's just trying to prevent me from seeking a appeal and put up roadblocks in the way. Um that's uh it it it doesn't uh help preserve the justice by putting those roadblocks up. Um yeah, uh I believe that's that's uh what I have to say there.

> Judge Evans: All right. Thank you, Mr. Bass.

> Mr. Bass: Thank you, your honor.

> Judge Evans: Mr. Stoddard, did you want to respond on the motion uh pertaining to the stay as well as the motion pertaining to the superius call?

> Mr. Stoddard: I would, your honor. Uh I I think it's important to recognize the procedural posture of this case and the claims that are actually before the court. Uh any equity that Mr. Bass had in that property, he lost when it went to foreclosure sale. It was gone. Uh the claim before the court is for possession of the property. Uh there is no claim to set aside the trustee sale. There is no claim for damages but that Mr. Bass is asserting against the trustee or his former lender. None of that has occurred. This court has determined that my client pursuant to a trustees deed is entitled to possession and that is the only issue uh that is before the court and then the only issue that is on appeal. Uh again contrary to Mr. Naggie's comments uh I'll go ahead and lay forth the procedural history on this one. On August 14th of 2024 pliff filed his complaint and in it alleged a paragraph three um or I guess it wasn't August 14 When the complaint was filed, pliff alleged that the defendants, including Mr. Bass, were occupying and refusing to surrender the property. On August 14th, Mr. Bass filed his response to summons and complaint, which at paragraph 3 stated, "Defendant admits to occupying the property." October 15th of 2024, when Mr. Bass responded to the summary judgement motion, he again alleged that defendant is the owner and resident of the property. Uh, on November 6th, of 2024 when he made his first stay motion, he alleged that without a stay, defendant will face immediate eviction, removal of his person from that property. Um, in his affidavit and supported that motion for stay, he maintained that his primary residence is the property. Uh, in his memorandum and supported the motion for stay, he alleged that absent a stay, immediate eviction from his primary residence would result in the loss of his home. Uh now in his most recent filings again he has represented this court and submitted an affidavit that indicates a paragraph 2A fe since February of 2024 Mr. Bass has resided at an entirely different piece of property uh pursuant to some sort of rental arrangement. Um now as for Mr. Pike, that's that's a different story for a different day. That's not before the court. That is still an active uh issue to be litigated. Uh the impact of the judgment against Mr. Bass has no implication or impact on Mr. Pike's rights. Uh in fact, we're having here for a status conference to determine those. With that preceding background in mind, Mr. Bass's request for stay is to prevent his eviction from a property that he has now admitted in his filings he's not residing at. Uh and so that coupled with the statutory uh framework that clearly provides ides uh that a trustees deed is final and conclusive in uh for a good faith purchaser and that any defects in notice are waved where a party has actual notice of the sale which Mr. Bass did. Uh all support that there is no basis for Mr. Bass's appeal. Certainly he has the right to appeal. U certainly we may move to dismiss that appeal on it being moot because he's not in possession of the property. But he's presented no valid basis for a a stay in this matter. And certainly his recent filings contradict uh his underlying assertion that without a stay, he faces immediate removal from that property because he's not actually there. He might be using it as a storage unit. Uh which it sounds like based on his testimony today is is the only uh quote unquote occupation of that property. Uh but he's not facing eviction where he admits he's living someplace else. With respect to the supersedious bond uh Again, your honor, Mr. Bass has not sought to set aside the underlying sale. He has not sued the trustee. He has not sued his his lender. Uh where he comes up with a theory that my client's entitled to go back and be be made whole, uh I have no idea what the basis of that is. Uh my client is out over $160,000 uh in money that it paid over a year ago. Uh since that time, it has been denied possession of of the property. Um, obviously, you know, Mr. Pike's rental of a basement unit is a is a separate issue, but with respect to the remainder of the property, my client has been denied possession and the ability to use that property. As the recorded owner of record, my client uh has to pay the property taxes, has to keep that insured. Uh, that Mr. Bass is, I guess, deciding to keep his belongings warm in by storing them there. Um, I think it has no basis on whether or not a stay is warranted in this matter. Um, Mr. Pike, meanwhile, again, different story for a different day, uh, is able to contact the owner of this property and Mr. Naggie and I have are are openly discussing that um, and can deal with that. So, the fact that Mr. Bass, I guess, is fighting to pay pay bills on a property he doesn't live in or to help support a occupant in the basin. for who he's not responsible for. Um do not support waiver of a bond in this matter. Um and for those reasons, uh one based on the admission that he's not residing in that property, uh I I think any type of stay is unwarranted because he doesn't face the purported harms that he has alleged. Specifically, he doesn't face immediate removal. He's already out. Uh and secondly, if the court issues a stay, the law cited in in our briefing, indicates that a bond should be required at a minimum for the lost use of that property for my client and um and Mr. Bass has proposed no no bond whatsoever. Simply wants wants it waved altogether. Um we've provided the court with a number of different um taxs that other district court judges have taken and similar ejectment actions that I've handled uh throughout the state. Uh those include everything from outright denial of a stay where there's no merit to the appeal uh to the posting of a bond in an amount uh of the purchase price of the property or uh the posting of a bond and an amount um consistent with the tax assessed value at 20%. I think uh all of those uh should the court determine that a stay is appropriate uh would be a warranted precondition of any sort of stay in this matter. Thank you. 

> Judge Evans: Thank you, Mr. Naggie. Is there anything you wanted to add in regards to these uh last two motions regarding the stay and the bond?

> Mr. Naggy: Yes, your honor. Thank you. Um your honor, uh Mr. Stoddard, I think has mixed together his uh um reply to my comments with regards to the attorney's fees into his argument for the stay. I think that they're separate issues. Uh and I don't see whether Mr. Bass is currently occupying or residing at the premises. or not to necessarily be uh in issue uh with regards to the motion for the stay. Um uh I didn't uh I understood this to be a motion hearing. Mr. Stoddard seems to be wanting to argue evidence at this hearing and uh I I think that uh I'm going to restate what I've heard from Mr. Bass because I think Mr. Bass made a very logical and sound argument. Um, but he didn't make it in the typical uh way that attorneys would argue it. Um, and uh, what I'm hearing from Mr. Bass is that your honor, if you don't stay the enforcement of your order uh, while the appeal is pending, he will be irrevocably deprived of a property right because Mr. Stoddard's client will take possession of the property. Of course, that will potentially have an effect on my client as well. And So um he he will not be able to be made whole if he prevails on appeal. He will have lost possession of the premises and there would be no way to repair that uh situation if the appellet court agrees with Mr. Bass's arguments that the uh foreclosure on his property was faulty. So I do believe that Mr. Bass's arguments are warranted what that the matter should be stayed. Not only because my client would benefit from that as well, uh, but because both parties, my client and Mr. Bass would be, uh, damaged by allowing Mr. Stoddard's clients to take possession before the appeal is heard. So, I do think it makes sense um to stay the proceeding. I I won't speak to the uh the bond because my client does not have a position on that. But I will state finally that uh I assume the court will be taking up the status conference um uh afterwards and uh in the event and I'll be asking the court to hold off scheduling anything uh until the court has had an opportunity to decide whether it will be granting the stay or not because that will affect whether we'll be going forward on Mr. Pike's part of the case. Thank you, your honor. 

> Judge Evans: All right. Thank you. Well, um,

> Mr. Stoddard: can I quickly respond to Mr. Naggie's a couple of comments, your honor?

> Judge Evans: You may.

> Mr. Stoddard: Thank you. Um, first off, there's nothing in the record indicating that Mr. Pike suffers any type of harm uh by virtue of a ruling against Mr. Bass and removal of Mr. Bass from the property. Uh, second, the question before the court is whether a state should prevent Mr. Bass's removal from the property. not Mr. Pikes. Mr. Pike's issue because the court issued a 54B certificate means that those issues still can continue to be decided by the court and continue to be litigated. Mr. Pike resides there. Mr. Pike claims he has a lease. Mr. Pike claims that he is paying rent. Those are all issues that that the court will decide as this matter continues forward. Any stay for Mr. Bass preventing his removal does not stay. a determination as to Mr. Pike's entitlement to continue to reside in the property and whether or not Mr. Pike should be removed from that property. Um, he still has his day in court. He still is not facing immediate eviction or any damages whatsoever. Uh, which is the reason why uh we effectively bifurcated these two issues. Um, that those are my only comments, your honor.

> Judge Evans: Right. Thank you.

> Mr. Bass: May I make any comments? Your honor.

> Judge Evans: You may, Mr. Bass.

> Mr. Bass: Um, I would just want to add that uh having my property uh like my truck that is uh immobile. Uh those are things that I do have at the property and and uh why it's I I I don't see it as disingenuous or me trying to uh lie at all to say that I am that I have property there and that it's it's occupying the area. Me needing to have a place to take a shower and feed myself is an extra burden that I have to have because of the situation. And if it if this situation wasn't happening, I wouldn't have to be doing this. I would have also uh had taken care of uh my ability to have water and and uh sanitary needs, but uh that doesn't change that my I have things like my truck, things that I can't just put at someone else's place easily. And so that harm uh it comes in multiple uh in multiple ways with me. Uh and that's part of the reason why a stay uh is the most neutral uh path that I can see while uh I exercise. has my rights to an appeal. Um, and I believe is the most uh neutral of options. Um, and I did uh wanted to point out that I did offer a uh nominal bond amount in uh in one of the motions. I hadn't just said uh you know willy-nilly uh that everything should be free. Um although I do take uh a very heavy hit in in this process and uh and am fronting things uh while I have income uh taken away and uh covering things that uh should be for the property. Uh but I did offer a a nominal bond that wouldn't be uh hard to to to put out and and show good faith with. Um but uh I I didn't want to not or I wanted to point out that I had made a offer uh that was a nominal one. So, um with that, that's all I would have to add. Uh your honor.

> Judge Evans: All right. Thank you.

> Mr. Bass: Thank you.

> Judge Evans: Um I am going to take this issue in regards to the motion to stay and the motion regarding the superius bond under advisement. I will issue try to get a a decision issued out uh in due course hopefully shortly. Um given that Uh, Mr. Neg, you indicated that since I'm not uh prepared to uh rule on on the on the record today, um, a status conference pertaining to the keys regard regarding Mr. Pike um, perhaps should be continued. Um, so that we know where we're headed. Is that what I is that what you indicated?

> Mr. Naggy: I I it does make sense to me, your honor, to do that given that we don't know at this point um whether the eviction will be going forward uh in order to correct I think a misstatement of procedure that Mr. Stoddard made uh he stated that Mr. my client would not be deprived of a property right if his client took possession. Well, your honor, Mr. Bass, my understanding is has never alleged that my client is in default and should be evicted. Therefore, if Mr. Stoddard's clients take possession of the property, they then can proceed with the eviction proceeding against my client. Whereas, if the appellet court agrees with Mr. Bass and he retains ownership of the property, then uh presumably Mr. Bass would not be proceeding with the eviction against my client because he's never alleged that my client's in default. So, at this point, given the uh kind of the muddle that we're in here, not knowing the um uh whether Mr. Bass will be granted uh the relief that he's seeking in the appeal, it would make sense to me to hold off doing the status conference is schedule scheduling something in the unlawful detainer proceeding.

> Judge Evans: do you have any objection to us bumping out this status conference for a couple weeks?

> Mr. Stoddard: Uh if it's a couple weeks, no, your honor. Um but again, I I think procedurally Mr. Naggie is mistaken. Uh Mr. Pike filed his answer in this matter not alleging that he's uh paying the rifle owner, not alleging that Mr. Bass owns the property, but alleging that he's not subject to eviction because he has a lease agreement that under the Protecting Tenants and foreclosure Act has to be honored by my clients um for the end of its term. Um so if he wants it honored, then the question before the court based upon the pleadings, specifically Mr. Pike's verified answer, is whether or not he has a valid bonafide lease. and whether or not he's in compliance with that, if he wants to invoke that as a means of avoiding my client's request for possession. Um, that being the case, again, if Mr. Bass is evicted, Mr. Pike still gets his day in court. We still get to litigate over whether or not his lease is bonafideed, whether or not he's in compliance with that lease, uh, etc. Um, the an appeal by Mr. Bass has no implication on that, especially where Mr. Pike has not alleged otherwise. Mr. Pike's not alleging a challenge to ownership of this property. He has only alleged that his lease my client is required to honor. Uh and so that's the matter that proceeds forward. Uh I think Mr. Naggie is correct. He does potentially face eviction for non-payment of rent because he continues to pay the wrong party. Uh but again, those aren't issues before this court. Those are issues to be uh continued to be litigated. And because this court issued a 54B certificate on the judgment against Mr. Bass, those are claims that can continue to be litigated through the normal course of of these proceedings. Um, so if if it's just a twoe continuence to see where the court comes down on the stay, that's fine. But again, given the procedure uh procedural posture of the case, what's been alleged in the complaint, which was alleged in Mr. Pike's verified answer, whether the court stays removal of Mr. Bass has no implication on whether or not Mr. Pike has a separate right to continue to occupy the property under a lease agreement and whether or not he is in uh compliance with that lease agreement. Thank you.

> Judge Evans: Thank you. And I do have to apologize. Um I can't actually I will not have an answer in a week and in two weeks I will be in a criminal jury trial. So I would next be available three weeks out which would be on February 11. Is that February 11? I would be able to hear it at at 9:30. Does that work with Mr. Ngi with you and your client and Mr. Stoddard?

> Mr. Stoddard: That works for me, your honor.

> Judge Evans: All right. So, I will have an answer. Um, your

> Mr. Naggy: honor, I'm trying to get

> Judge Evans: Okay.

> Mr. Naggy: I'm trying to get my calendar open here.

> Judge Evans: Not a problem. I hear papers. That sounds like an oldfashioned calendar.

> Mr. Naggy: Well, I I My camera wouldn't work when I first joined the hearing today and it told me to close my browser and reopen it. And so I did that. When I did that, I shut off my electronic calendar.

> Judge Evans: Gotcha.

> Mr. Naggy: February 11th. At what time, your honor?

> Judge Evans: At 9:30, if that's available.

> Mr. Naggy: Yes, your honor.

> Judge Evans: All right. Then I'll go ahead and set a status conference pertaining to Planiff versus Mr. uh Pike um on February 11th at 9:30. And then Mr. Bass, I'll get out a decision pertaining to uh whether this matter the enforcement of the uh summary judgement will be um stayed or not and if not um or if so whether or not there will be requirement for a superseded bond.

> Mr. Naggy: Thank you.

> Judge Evans: And then I assume you'll be pursuing your appeal up at the upper level.

> Mr. Bass: Yes, your honor.

> Judge Evans: All right. Anything further uh in regards to this uh case today?

> Mr. Bass: Uh not complaint, your honor.

> Judge Evans: Not your Thank you all. Have a Great, great day.

> Mr. Bass: Thank you, your honor. 3 1782 is my birthday. It's 2025 0121 is 103. 8 a.m. Pacific Standard Time. I didn't follow my notes well enough. Makes me so nervous in here. I screw up. I choke up. Got to thank Mr. Negi.