Taylor v. Just, 138 Idaho 137 (2002)
The trustee's sale was voided after the grantor and beneficiary entered into a pre-sale agreement that cured the default, rendering the sale unnecessary.  The trustee's sale was invalidated because the default had been cured through a pre-sale agreement between the grantor and beneficiary. The sale proceeded despite the resolution of the default, leading the court to void the sale.

promissory estoppel 

Security Pacific Finance Corp. v. Bishop, 109 Idaho 25 (1985)
The trustee's sale was invalidated due to procedural defects in the non-judicial foreclosure process. The court ruled that the sale must be set aside . This case involved a non-judicial foreclosure where the trustee's sale was invalidated. The borrower challenged the sale on grounds including usury, and the court set aside the sale.



 - In Fannie Mae v. Ormesher, the Idaho District Court for Kootenai County addressed a wrongful foreclosure claim where the defendants alleged that the plaintiff did not own the promissory note at the time of the foreclosure and did not properly notify the trustee's sale. The court noted that Fannie Mae was not the entity that initiated the foreclosure proceedings, and the foreclosure sale was conducted by Northwest Trustee Services, Inc. The court's decision focused on the procedural aspects of the foreclosure and the validity of the trustee's sale Fannie Mae v. Ormesher, 2014 Ida. Dist. LEXIS 31. 


Federal National Mortgage Ass'n v. Hafer, 158 Idaho 694 (2015)

The Idaho Supreme Court voided a trustee's sale because the default had been resolved before the foreclosure, which rendered the sale unauthorized under Idaho law.
Read more






However, the court should liberally construe the facts in favor of the party opposing the motion, together with all reasonable inferences from the evidence. Mitchell, supra. See also, Anderson v. City of Pocatello, 112 Idaho 176, 731 P.2d 171 (1986); Bunker Hill Co. v. United Steelworkers of America, 107 Idaho 155, 686 P.2d 835 (1984).

Suitts v. First Sec. Bank of Idaho, N.A., 125 Idaho 27, 31 (Idaho Ct. App. 1994)



Suitts v. First Sec. Bank of Idaho, N.A., 125 Idaho 27, 31 (Idaho Ct. App. 1994) (“However, the court should liberally construe the facts in favor of the party opposing the motion, together with all reasonable inferences from the evidence. Mitchell, supra. See also, Anderson v. City of Pocatello, 112 Idaho 176, 731 P.2d 171 (1986); Bunker Hill Co. v. United Steelworkers of America, 107 Idaho 155, 686 P.2d 835 (1984).”)









Please give me all the cases in Idaho that involve trustee's sale where the sale was invalidated but doesn't have anything to do with being invalidated due to procedural defects or is due to failure to give notice and is not a part of a bankruptcy directly.

skip these cases

Markham v. Anderton, 118 Idaho 856 (1990)
Liberty Bankers Life Insurance v. Witherspoon, Kelley, Davenport & Toole, P.S., 159 Idaho 679 (2016)
Roos v. Belcher, 321 P.2d 210 (1958)
Federal National Mortgage Ass'n v. Hafer, 158 Idaho 694 (2015)
Fannie Mae v. Ormesher, 2014 Ida. Dist. LEXIS 31. 
Security Pacific Finance Corp. v. Bishop, 109 Idaho 25 (1985)
Taylor v. Just, 138 Idaho 137 (2002)
Spencer v. Jameson, 147 Idaho 497 (2009)
Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC v. Wally Enterprises, Inc. (2022)
Infanger v. City of Salmon, 137 Idaho 45 (2002)
Fannie Mae v. Hafer, 158 Idaho 694 
Fed. Home Loan Mortg. Corp. v. Appel, 143 Idaho 42,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. v. Appel, 137 P.3d 429 (Idaho 2006)
Gordon v. United States Bank Nat'l Ass'n, 166 Idaho 105
Thompson v. Kirsch, 106 Idaho 177
Houpt v. Wells Fargo Bank, Nat'l Assoc., 160 Idaho 181,
Nathon A. Baughman v. Wells Fargo Bank, 162 Idaho 174 (2017)
Black Diamond Alliance, LLC v. Kimball, 148 Idaho 798 (2010)
Rexburg Lumber Co. v. Purrington, 113 P.2d 511 (Idaho 1941)
Diamond v. Sandpoint Title Ins., Inc., 132 Idaho 145 (1998)
PHH Mortgage Services Corp. v. Perreira, 146 Idaho 631 (2009)
Wakelam v. Hagood, 151 Idaho 688, 
Kivett v. Owyhee County, 58 Idaho 372,
Gibbs v. Claar, 59 Idaho 763
Montierth v. Dorssers-Thomsen, 539 P.3d 578
Pines Grazing Ass'n v. Flying Joseph Ranch, LLC, 151 Idaho 924 
440 v. Riverbank, 2014 Ida. Dist. LEXIS 37
Marina at Black Rock v. Idaho Independent Bank, 2011 Ida. Dist. LEXIS 93 
Nampa Highway Dist. No. 1 v. Knight, 166 Idaho 609 
Adams v. Anderson, 142 Idaho 208 
First Interstate Bank, N.A. v. Eisenbarth, 123 Idaho 895 
Mitcham v. CWB Mortgage Ventures, LLC, District Court, D. Idaho (2012)
Sykes v. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS), District Court, D. Idaho (2012)
Hobson v. Wells Fargo Bank N.A., District Court, D. Idaho (2012)
Burnside v. NW Trustee Svc (2019)
Gordon v. U.S. Bank, 166 Idaho 105 (2019)
Frontier Federal Savings & Loan Association v. Douglass, 123 Idaho 808 (1993)
Pinkham v. Plate, 552 P.3d 605.
Frontier Fed. Sav. & Loan Ass'n v. Douglass, 123 Idaho 808. 
Fannie Mae v. Noordam, 2014 Ida. Dist. LEXIS 15
Darrow v. White (2023):
Liberty Bankers Life Ins. Co. v. Witherspoon, 2014 Ida. Dist. LEXIS 16. 




~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Idaho Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 11.1. Verification.
ircp 11.1
 

Verification of pleadings authorized or permitted under these rules or by law must be a written statement or declaration by a party or the party's attorney of record sworn to or affirmed before an officer authorized to take depositions by Rule 28, or that otherwise complies with Idaho Code Section 9-1406 and Rule 28 of these rules, that the affiant believes the facts stated to be true, unless a verification upon personal knowledge is required. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by an officer. When a partnership or other unincorporated association is the party under a common name, the verification may be made by a member or an officer.


(Adopted March 1, 2016, effective July 1, 2016.) 




Loc. Civ. R.  5.1


(f)  Eligibility.  Only a Registered Participant or an authorized employee of the Registered Participant may file documents electronically.  To become a Registered Participant, or to act as an authorized employee of the Registered Participant, a person must satisfy the registration requirements established by the Court and participate in training as required by the Court unless the Clerk is satisfied that training is not necessary. 

(g)  Consequences of Electronic Filings.  The electronic transmission of a document to the Court via an electronic filing system authorized by the Court and consistent with the administrative and technical requirements established by the Court, constitutes filing of the document for all purposes.  The filing date and time of a document filed electronically will be the date and time the document is electronically received by the Court, which for the purposes of this Rule will be Mountain Time.

(h)  Entry of Court Issued Documents.  The Court will enter all orders, decrees, judgments and proceedings of the Court in accordance with the electronic filing procedures, which will constitute entry of the order, decree, judgment, or proceeding on the docket kept by the Clerk of Court.



District Local Rule Civ 15.1 (Civil) [v. 2]
Loc. Civ. R.  15.1
FORM OF A MOTION TO AMEND
AND ITS SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION

A party who moves to amend a pleading must describe the type of the proposed amended pleading in the motion (i.e., motion to amend answer, motion to amend counterclaim).  Any amendment to a pleading, whether filed as a matter of course or upon a motion to amend, must reproduce the entire pleading as amended. The proposed amended pleading must be submitted at the time of filing the motion to amend.

In addition, unless the moving party is a pro se prisoner, any motion to amend a pleading must be accompanied by a version of the proposed amended pleading that shows – through redlining, underlining, strikeouts, or other similarly effective methods – how the proposed amended pleading differs from the operative pleading; provided, however, pro se litigants will be exempted from this requirement.



District Local Rule Civ 83.7 (Civil) 
Loc. Civ. R.  83.7
PERSONS APPEARING WITHOUT AN ATTORNEY - PRO SE

Persons Appearing Without an Attorney--In Propria Persona. Any person who is representing himself or herself without an attorney must appear personally for such purpose and may not delegate that duty to any other person. While such person may seek outside assistance in preparing Court documents for filing, the person is expected to personally participate in all aspects of the litigation, including Court appearances. Persons appearing without attorneys are required to become familiar with and comply with all Local Rules of this District, as well as the Federal Rules of Civil and /or Criminal Procedure. In exceptional circumstances, the Court may modify these provisions to serve the ends of justice.






District Local Rule Civ 7.1 (Civil) [v. 4]
Loc. Civ. R.  7.1
MOTION PRACTICE

(a)  General Requirements.

(1)  The moving and responding parties are not required to submit an additional copy of any motion, memorandum of points and authorities, and supporting materials, including affidavits and/or declarations, unless required by the judge assigned to the matter.

(2)  No memorandum of points and authorities in support of or in opposition to a motion may exceed twenty (20) pages in length, nor may a reply brief exceed ten (10) pages in length, without express leave of the Court which will be granted only under unusual circumstances.  The use of small fonts and/or minimal spacing to comply with the page limitation is not acceptable.

(3)  Documents submitted in response to, in support of, or in opposition to other documents must be clearly labeled with the docket number of the motion in the caption.

(4)  Parties must submit proposed orders concerning routine or uncontested matters only via e-mail in accordance with ECF Procedures.

(5)  Any party, either proposing or opposing a motion or other application, who does not intend to urge or oppose the same must immediately notify opposing counsel and the Clerk of Court by filing a pleading titled “Non-Opposition to Motion.”

(6)  The time periods specified herein and automatically generated by CM/ECF for service do not supersede, alter or amend any otherwise applicable Federal or Local Rule or Order of the Court specifying a different time period for service or method of computing time.

(b)  Requirements for Submission--Moving Party.

(1)  Each motion, other than a routine or uncontested matter, must be accompanied by a separate brief, not to exceed twenty (20) pages, containing all of the reasons and points and authorities relied upon by the moving party.  With motions for summary judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56, in addition to the requirements contained in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56(c)(1), the moving party must file a separate statement of all material facts, not to exceed ten (10) pages, which the moving party contends are not in dispute .

(2)  The moving party must serve and file with the motion affidavits required or permitted by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 6(c), declarations submitted in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, copies of all photographs, documentary evidence and other supporting materials on which the moving party intends to rely.

(3)  The moving party may submit a reply brief, not to exceed ten (10) pages, within fourteen (14) days after service upon the moving party of the responding party’s memorandum of points and authorities. The reply brief, should be clearly identified as a “Reply in Support of Motion to ___________[Dkt.__].”

(4)  If relief is sought under any of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure dealing with discovery practices, the party seeking or opposing relief must comply with the specific practices and procedures governing discovery motions found in Local Rules 37.1 and 37.2 and the Court's scheduling orders.

(c)  Requirements for Submission--Responding Party.

(1)  The responding party must serve and file a response brief, not to exceed twenty (20) pages, within twenty-one (21) days after service upon the party of the memorandum of points and authorities of the moving party.  The responding party must serve and file with the response brief any affidavits, declarations submitted in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 1746, copies of all photographs, documentary evidence, and other supporting materials on which the responding party intends to rely.

(2)  In responding to a motion for summary judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56, in addition to the requirements contained in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56(c)(1), the responding party must also file a separate statement, not to exceed ten (10) pages, of all material facts which the responding party contends are in dispute.

(3)  The response brief, should be clearly identified as a “Response to the Motion to __________________________[Dkt. ____]” and must contain all of the reasons and points and authorities relied upon by the responding party.

(d) Determination of Motions by the Court and Scheduling for Oral Argument, if Appropriate.

(1)  Hearings.

(A)  If the presiding judge determines that oral argument on the motion is appropriate, the attorneys for the parties will be notified of a hearing date for oral argument on the motion and the Court will file a notice of hearing.

The attorney for the moving party is required to resolve any conflicts regarding the hearing date with opposing counsel and then contact the Court for a new hearing date if conflicts develop over an initial hearing date.   

(B)  If the presiding judge determines that oral argument will not be necessary, the matter will be decided on the briefs. 

If the presiding judge later determines that oral argument would be of assistance, the parties will be notified by the Court.

(2)  Attorneys are encouraged to communicate with the courtroom deputies regarding the status of any motion.

(3)  The parties may request that the hearing be conducted telephonically or by video conference by contacting the courtroom deputy to obtain permission from the presiding judge.  Video conferencing is available in Boise, Pocatello, and Coeur d’Alene.

(e)  Effects of Failure to Comply with the Rules of Motion Practice.

(1)  Failure by the moving party to file any documents required to be filed under this rule in a timely manner may be deemed a waiver by the moving party of the pleading or motion.  Except as provided in subpart (2) below, if an adverse party fails to timely file any response documents required to be filed under this rule, such failure may be deemed to constitute a consent to the sustaining of said pleading or the granting of said motion or other application.  In addition, the Court, upon motion or its own initiative, may impose sanctions in the form of reasonable expenses incurred, including attorney fees, upon the adverse party and/or counsel for failure to comply with this rule. 

(2)  In motions brought under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56, if the non-moving party fails to timely file any response documents required to be filed, such failure will not be deemed a consent to the granting of said motion by the Court.  However, if a party fails to properly support an assertion of fact or fails to properly address another party’s assertion of fact as required by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56(c) or Local Rule 7.1(b)(1) or (c)(2), the Court may consider the uncontested material facts as undisputed for purposes of consideration of the motion, and the Court may grant summary judgment if the motion and supporting materials - including the facts considered undisputed - show that the moving party is entitled to the granting of the motion.

(f)  Requests to Extend Motion Briefing Period or to Vacate or Reschedule Motion Hearing Dates.  (See Dist. Idaho Loc. Civ. R. 6.1.)

RELATED AUTHORITY

Fed. R. Civ. P. 5(a), 6(b) & (d), 56, 78








District Local Rule Civ 6.1 (Civil) [v. 2]
Loc. Civ. R.  6.1
REQUESTS AND ORDERS TO SHORTEN OR EXTEND TIME
OR CONTINUE TRIAL DATES

When by these rules or by notice given thereunder an act is required or allowed to be done at or within a specified time, the Court, for cause shown, may at any time, with or without motion or notice, order the period be shortened or extended.  The Court's Order shortening or extending time is controlling and is not superseded by any automatically generated deadline from CM/ECF.

(a)  Requests for Time Extensions Concerning Motions. All requests to extend briefing periods or to vacate or reschedule motion hearing dates must be in writing and state the specific reason(s) for the requested time extension. Such requests will be granted only upon a showing of good cause. A mere stipulation between the parties without providing the reason(s) for the requested time extension will be deemed insufficient. The requesting party must apprise the Court if they have previously been granted any time extensions in this particular action.

(b)  Requests for Trial Continuance. All requests to vacate, continue, or reschedule a trial date must be in the form of a written motion, must be approved by the client, and must state the specific reason(s) for the requested continuance. A mere stipulation between the parties without providing the specific reason(s) for the requested continuance will be deemed insufficient. Client approval can be satisfied either by the client’s actual signature or by the attorney certifying to the Court that the client knows about and agrees to the requested continuance. The requesting party must apprise the Court if they have previously been granted a trial date continuance in this particular action.

RELATED AUTHORITY

Fed. R. Civ. P. 6
28 U.S.C. § 473
